---
layout: minutes
date: 18/19 February 2020
title: Publishing Business Group Telecon — 18/19 February 2020
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
        "dateCreated": "18/19 February 2020",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
            "startDate": "18/19 February 2020",
            "endDate": "18/19 February 2020",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "daihei shiohama"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Junko Kamata"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Murata Makoto"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美)"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 18/19 February 2020

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/02/19-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Junko Kamata, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Murata Makoto, Shinya Takami, Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美)

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. New PBG Co-Chair
{: #section1}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Luc is scheduled to retire at end of March, will work with us until then  
… Cristina Mussinelli is co-chair elect and will start working with us through transition  
… many of us know her from her many roles and she will represent Europe  
… our representation of Europe and NA and Asia goes on with this group  

### 2. Digital Publishing Survey
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** sent out last week, worked on by Liisa and Dave Cramer and many responses so far  
… translated version went out yesterday for Japanese  
… next monday Feb 24 there will be an F2F meeting in NY for the steering committee  
… will discuss the survey  
… if you can promote and answer the survey, we would appreciate it  
… it will be helpful beyond next week to still gather answers  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there has been a lot of good response so far and there is a lot of information that will be useful for people at every level  
… the hope is that we will have information to share widely that will help people making digital products and everyone else in the chain  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** explaining how the survey can be used and how to participate in Japanese  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* Liisa, I will include this exchange of discussion in English

> *Murata Makoto:* I would like members of the Japanese DAISY consortium to respond to this survey. Most importantly, Shinano kenshi and Suzuki-senseoi.

> *Murata Makoto:* Sure. I will.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Murata will share with them and will send again to representatives from Taiwan  
… can share beyond W3C members, so any other contacts in Korea, China or anywhere else, please help to forward  

### 3. epubcheck fundraising
{: #section3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** have more coming in, but still need to secure some more  
… task force will come back and ask organizations to consider funding  
… could be just $1000 or any amount  
… hope to have fundraising done before spring  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** development has slowed a little, but still on track and working toward a 4.2.3 release  

### 4. SC F2F Meeting next Monday
{: #section4}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** questions or comments?  
… wanted to discuss how we have been doing and set strategy for the future  
… PWG charter is going to end by end of June and are on track to finish audiobook spec  
… for all groups, what is needed next?  
… would like to hear your thoughts and expectations for what the Japanese needs are  
… catchup on points  
… was speaking to editorial person, once framework is set and then a spec then an editor would use  
… in the future publishing would crossover with CSS and media and entertainment and similar interests  
… hopefully then discussion together would help publishing community in a way  
… the survey relates to the current publishing industry but will also provide the horizon of publishing business  
… comments from Yoshi-san  

**Junko Kamata:** running a company, Voyager, developing reading system software  
… keen on the satisfaction of the developers and what they get from their job  
… follow technical dream is too vague, but recognize that achievements are contributing to the whole would help to see  
… that the contributions are important and help with their satisfaction  
… establishing the future of a framework would help them to set objectives  

**Shinya Takami:** it's quite different from when EPUB3 launched 10 years ago  
… the ebook business progressed in Japan  
… instead of seeking for new standard as a global framework  
… streamlining or simplifying things in the business with production of files and distribution  
… the workflows to streamline and strengthen would be a good place to focus  
… maybe better than discussing a whole entire framework  
… EPUB is good enough, talk about maintenance and simpler and more convenient  
… better and realistic and pragmatic  

**Murata Makoto:** have been wondering if it possible to have F2F events with W3C and other accessibility groups  
… know there are teleconferences, but for marketing reasons might be good to have public events  
… accessibility and metadata such as ONIX  
… hot and the japanese library are interested  
… to change the world, to make a difference, joint events that would be good  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** conferences are a good conversation  
… ebookcraft and the Digital Publishing Summit in Madrid are upcoming  
… many of the things we are talking about here with frameworks for the future that are safe to implement  
… and needing more cost-effective and good support is very inline with what we are hearing from the survey from people around the world  

> *Murata Makoto:* If EPUB 3.2 becomes a REC as is, I love it.

> *Murata Makoto:* Dropping non-interoperable features from 3.2 is a risky business, IMHO.

> *Murata Makoto:* A REC is convenient for creating an ISO/IEC standard.

> *Murata Makoto:* I have to leave. Bye now.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** EPUB and Rec Track is a discussion that is being considered  
… backwards compatibility is an issue for people  
… is ISO along with rec track good for business or governmental issues?  
… japanese business is based on 3.2 back to 3.0.1 and no one wants to make any harm on that  
… anything to make alterations to make ISO standard would make it not compliant  
… talking about improvement for PBG meetings  
… want to be more solution oriented and are thinking about inviting guest speakers to add information and knowledge  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* ..these are ideas

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** please share ideas for anything that you think will stimulate discussion  
… thanks all!  


---
