---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-01-07
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2020-01-07
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-01-07",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-01-07",
            "endDate": "2020-01-07",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Karen Myers"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wolfgang Schindler"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ralph Swick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ric Wright"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Julie Blair"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Stroup"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "q+"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-01-07

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2020Jan/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/01/07-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Karen Myers, Luc Audrain, Wolfgang Schindler, Dave Cramer, Ralph Swick, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Ivan Herman, Tzviya Siegman, Jeff Jaffe, Bill Kasdorf, Wendy Reid, George Kerscher, Avneesh Singh, Ric Wright, Julie Blair, Garth Conboy, David Stroup, Cristina Mussinelli

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Luc Audrain

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Bill Kasdorf:* -> [https:](https:)

> *Bill Kasdorf:* FYI I will have to leave at 12:30 and may be interrupted in the meantime.

### 1. status of epubcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** at the end of the year there was good news  
… $15k from various companies, including APL and Firebrand  
… we are not yet to the figures we will have to pay at the end of February  
… we still need $4k to pay the developers  
… I have not yet received contributions from some European companies I have contacted  
… for all the work we want to do this year, we are still $35k short  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I started to write an introduction letter to go with the survey  
… and was going to include a plea for paying for epubcheck  
… I want it to be easy for people to take action  

**Jeff Jaffe:** that's an interesting idea  
… and I'm trying to process it. The motivation is good. We're reaching out to lots of people.  
… but all of us get asked by hundreds of organizations to give money every year  
… if I get a funding I'm less likely to pay attention to anything else that's in the request  
… I worry if we do this we might discourage people from filling out the survey  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Jeff, I think we can call out the fact that we've done this work, getting it off the ground  
… the way I'm writing this, I'm heading into a new decade, here's what we've done including epubcheck  
… and at the end I mention this  
… I think Luc's idea of reaching out individually to people we know, like vendors, is better  
… but this is another reminder  

**Tzviya Siegman:** here's a suggestion: instead of an introduction letter, put it at the end of the survey after they've filled it out  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* +1 to Tzviya's idea

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** tzviya, on your side I think you reached a bunch of companies. do you have news?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** no. I'll send reminders.  

**Luc Audrain:** so will I.  
… we've done a lot. We will continue.  

### 2. Survey
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Liisa and Dave, could you let you know?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I will be working on the introduction letter and to putting more into the survey questions  
… we have another week or more of review before we send it out  
… my proposal is that we start with a small group in the BG, make sure it works and makes sense,  
… then roll out to CG/WG/BG  
… I've started collecting names of people outside of this  
… who are active online or in publishing  
… I'll send a link  
… and as tzviya brought up, we should all be socialize this  
… and get it out before the end of the month  
… and get initial feedback in February  
… for the SC F2F  

**Dave Cramer:** George contributed to some questions  
… that have been merged  

**Luc Audrain:** any more comments on the survey?  
… Dave told us we should have a look at the documents  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#)

### 3. Calls
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** we have seen the schedule for calls  
… there is the question of daylight savings time  
… Daihei will write about the proper time schedule for Asia/US call  

**Garth Conboy:** there is the daylight savings time issue, and there was a shift between tues/wed  
… I'll wait for Daihei  

**Luc Audrain:** thanks Garth  

### 4. Audiobook standard
{: #section4}

**Luc Audrain:** could we have a small status?  

**Wendy Reid:** the tests are now live, they are hosted at (link TK)  

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://github.com/w3c/publ-tests](https://github.com/w3c/publ-tests)

**Wendy Reid:** we have a test repo in github, which will host all publishing tests  
… I'll be adding some sample content  
… there are some sample implementations from Matt and Ivan  
… we're hoping to see things from Lars or other implementors soon  
… we're working on some formatting stuff to make reporting easier  

**Luc Audrain:** what are the next steps?  
… is there a schedule?  

**Wendy Reid:** the testing will run to March 31  
… then we will review the test coverage  
… and then we will go for PR, which is six weeks of review, when the AC reviews and votes  
… and if they approve we get to REC  

**Ivan Herman:** wendyreid knows the process better than I do :)  

**Luc Audrain:** we are on schedule for 2020?  

**Wendy Reid:** yes  
… we're hoping for REC before the end of our charter on July 1  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** wendyreid and leslie were talking about how to help publishers understand what's coming  
… best practices, the metadata that is needed to be part of the project is a new thing for the producers of this content  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 Webinar with BISG

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we talked to Brian at BISG, so we're going to do a BISG webinar on Feb 18  
… to introduce the concept  
… brian is getting us an audience  
… and the material we develop for this will be broadly useful  

**Wendy Reid:** I'm going to be speaking next week at Project Voice about the audiobook spec  
… which I hope will increase the audience for this  

**Luc Audrain:** could you put a link to the conference in IRC?  

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://www.projectvoice.ai/](https://www.projectvoice.ai/)

**Wendy Reid:** it's in the US, in Chattanooga, TN  

**Luc Audrain:** this will be an item for the Digital Publishing Summit in June  
… 4th and 5th of June  
… in Madrid  
… will it be a topic at Techforum in Toronto in March?  

**Wendy Reid:** yes  

> *Ralph Swick:* See [Digital PUblishing SUmmit 2020: Call for proposals](https://www.edrlab.org/2020/01/06/digital-publishing-summit-2020-call-for-proposals-and-save-the-date/)

### 5. SC meeting
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** there will be an SC meeting in NY on February 24  

**Jeff Jaffe:** a SC F2F is an extremely valuable opportunity for us, even if some folks are remote  
… we have six or seven weeks to plan  
… I hope whoever is planning the agenda will use the meeting as a way to relaunch ourselves  
… and get some next steps  
… who is chairing the meeting? The BG chairs?  
… I'd like to see a first draft agenda soon.  

**Luc Audrain:** the SC does not have chairs  
… we discussed some time ago  
… the different group co-chairs running  
… we should probably prepare in the agenda the co-chairs of different groups  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we've had rotating chairs  
… I've been working on an agenda  
… I can share with the SC  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I need to jump to another meeting. Will catch up on the minutes. Thanks for great scribing, Dave!

**Tzviya Siegman:** we can discuss on Friday  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** that's good, Tzviya  
… we can discuss on Friday  
… the reason to put it on the agenda today is to be transparent about having this meeting  
… and get a relaunch and roadmap  
… and we want all group people to give us ideas on where we should be headed  
… reach out to any of our chairs  
… where should publishing at w3c be headed?  

### 6. a11y
{: #section6}

**Luc Audrain:** we have heard a11y concerns around the world  
… we feel some parts of the world is already involved  
… and some are far behind  
… they would like to discover more  
… as PBG, we could discuss how this knowledge flows from us, could be shared with others  
… we would like to share this discussion with you  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we were hearing from daihei yesterday  
… that many publishers are interested in a11y but unsure what is required of them  
… they are uncertain what the changes in euro law mean for their publications  
… how can we get euro publishers, or get legal help  
… some amount of work is being done on website a11y  
… as that is seen as a bigger legal risk in the US  
… but the work is similar  
… are any of us looking, as my org is, to collaborate on web/app/publications simultaneously?  
… and get everyone trained  

**Wendy Reid:** a few weeks from now, Canada is having an annual a11y in publishing summit  
… I'm hoping for guidance on what publishers are looking for  
… Canadian publishers are asking the same questions  
… it's not a local problem, it's an international problem  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 International challenge

**Wendy Reid:** lots of questions  
… so I'm hoping the summit will give us some feedback on what publishers need  
… there's drive to do it; they just need guidance  

> *Karen Myers:* [https://www.accessiblepublishing.ca/about-the-2020-summit/](https://www.accessiblepublishing.ca/about-the-2020-summit/)

**Tzviya Siegman:** liisamk was asking in a11y in books vs web  
… at wiley we're looking at a11y across the board  
… there's little that's unique about ebook a11y  
… so the ebook a11y folks are also working on other things  
… and all of the training affects websites, learning management systems, etc  

**George Kerscher:** wendy mentioned that the guidelines in different countries  
… i think it's critical that we work from a single set of guidelines  
… diverging guidelines would create chaos  
… we've seen that with 508 vs wcag  
… FYI in the US universities and schools are required to make their coursework accessible  
… but more and more of the orgs are pointing to born accessible publications  
… and the school put themselves at risk if they select an inaccessible publication over an accessible one  
… but the requirement isn't on the publisher. it's a level of indirection.  
… and it may be different after the euro stuff  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** george, you're right that things not being direct is confusing  
… isn't that bookshare's job? we know that's not the right answer  
… but we need to get people to understand why that's not the right answer  
… the training... we're looking at the variety of training that's available  
… how to you train lots of people  
… so you know if PRH is AA compliant across the org  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [https://www.w3.org/2019/12/pressrelease-intro-web-accessibility-course.html.en](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/pressrelease-intro-web-accessibility-course.html.en)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** one of my people is going to take the w3c training  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** you are right tzviya that it's a11y across the board  
… with the euro act there's a focus on each part of supply chain  
… for the publishers it's on the content  
… unless they are selling direct  
… and metadata  
… we should find ways to share solutions and awareness  
… there is a lot of stuff out there  

**Jeff Jaffe:** thanks liisa for the plug  
… we're using MIT's infrastructure  
… we have an a11y course  
… which should appeal to everyone, not just developers  
… spread the word  

**Karen Myers:** thanks for having this topic  
… during the last several months I've had lots of conversations, and this is a recurring theme  
… the need for education and information materials  
… Luc, you may recall that Sean Henry from WAI education outreach would be willing to work with PBG even for a simple landing page  
… just pointing to WAI, euro laws, etc.  
… that could be an interesting project  

> *Luc Audrain:* WIPO/ABC documents : [https://www.accessiblebooksconsortium.org/publishing/en/accessible_best_practice_guidelines_for_publishers.html](https://www.accessiblebooksconsortium.org/publishing/en/accessible_best_practice_guidelines_for_publishers.html)

**George Kerscher:** two items  
… DAISY created inclusivepublishing.org website  
… if that doesn't need the needs for a central place  
… we've tried not to make it a place where we author everything  
… we'd be happy to work with w3c for a landing page with a similar purpose  
… second point: we need to be introducing the whole concept of accessible authoring at a much earlier level  
… like at university where students are learning to write, they need to be creating a11y publications from the beginning  
… and there are new tools like word to EPUB  
… we need to change society  
… a11y is integrated into the fabric of society  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we can start karen and george by putting something on pbg page  
… and maybe point to inclusivepublishing.org  
… and w3c training  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** there is a repo  

> *Ivan Herman:* [BG repo](https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/)

**Jonathan Thurston:** at NYU we have what george said on our radar  

> *Luc Audrain:* Thnak you Ivan

**Jonathan Thurston:** we have many doctoral students who produce dissertations  
… and we have to hire outside firms to make the dissertations accessible  
… so we want to help graduate students make their work accessible  

**George Kerscher:** I have a solution for you. I'll send an email.  

**Avneesh Singh:** are we collecting this questions somewhere?  

**Luc Audrain:** we are not collecting them  
… it's just a feeling  
… not very specific questions  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Avneesh, the biggest thing that's not available anywhere is a pointer to the laws and their interpretation  
… I don't think the rest of what we hear isn't that it's available, having pointers would be good  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** I was thinking about the information  

> *George Kerscher:* Jonathan, please send kerscher@montana.com an email.

**Cristina Mussinelli:** if we could look at the paper we've produced  
… I can send you the link to the paper  
… there is a lot of material  
… tutorials and guidelines  
… but it's difficult for the supplier to the publisher to understand all that without practical training  
… you need to work with InDesign to make things born accessible  
… most of the production is done outside the publisher, by the suppliers  
… and they will not understand the guidelines. They need practical training.  
… just getting information together won't completely solve the problem  
… we need practical solutions  

**Wendy Reid:** that's the same feedback we got from the summit  
… we hope to get more details on what materials the publishers need, and then produce it  

> *Luc Audrain:* LIA paper: [https://www.fondazionelia.org/en/e-books-all-towards-accessible-publishing-ecosystem](https://www.fondazionelia.org/en/e-books-all-towards-accessible-publishing-ecosystem)

**Avneesh Singh:** the DAISY members are already having a project on making accessible docs in InDesign. This should be available in a year.  

**Luc Audrain:** we are almost at the hour  
… we have shared a lot of things about a11y. It's an important topic.  

> *George Kerscher:* Robb who works under Andrew Kirkpatrick has been charged with guidance for InDesign. contact me

**Luc Audrain:** thanks all.  

---
