---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-03-03
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2020-03-03
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-03-03",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-03-03",
            "endDate": "2020-03-03",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ralph Swick"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Cristina Mussinelli"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Luc Audrain"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wolfgang Schindler"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Karen Myers"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "julie"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Julie Blair"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-03-03

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2020Mar/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/03/03-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ralph Swick, Dave Cramer, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Tzviya Siegman, Cristina Mussinelli, Luc Audrain, Wolfgang Schindler, Ivan Herman, Wendy Reid, George Kerscher, Karen Myers, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), julie, Bill Kasdorf, Julie Blair

**Regrets:** Jeff Jaffe, Garth Conboy

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Ralph Swick, Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's get started  

### 1. new chair
{: #section1}

**Cristina Mussinelli:** I think you all know me :)  
… I'm very happy to be here; secretary general of Fondazione LIA but I also work for Italian Publishers Association  
… thanks for having me as a chair!  


**Ralph Swick:** Welcome!  


**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** congrats!  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** as we are headed into the new era  

### 2. Survey
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** sent out three weeks ago  

> *Ralph Swick:* See [Survey results 28 February 2020](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-publishing-survey/2020Feb/0006.html)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I don't know what feedback you've heard  

**Wendy Reid:** 240 responses as of last friday  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** in Japan, one of the industry orgs replied, and they have two responses?  
… I'm supposed to hear from another organization soon  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** at a high level, we got a lot of feedback on what features people want in epub  
… there's still work to be done on epub  
… lots of good info on where people are finding things  
… and that there is misinformation out there  
… there was a feeling that there's work to be done on epub *and* on education/outreach  
… we have lots of results  
… how do people want to see the data? What are your expectations on how it's shared and used  

**Tzviya Siegman:** when we discussed in a smaller group, you did a summary with key highlights; that was helpful  
… and for the non-essay question, seeing the bar charts was useful  
… or putting in statistical format  
… just seeing the spreadsheet is overwhelming  

**Wendy Reid:** I have been working with mateus on segmenting the data  
… we've been grouping it relationally  
… all the a11y Q's together, RS vs publisher, etc  
… and EPUB today vs EPUB tomorrow  
… what are people doing now vs what they're asking for that we can't do now  
… and what needs to be communicated better  

**Karen Myers:** it's a great Q  
… having done market research before  
… I"m a fan of full transparency  
… it's important the data is stored somewhere in case someone wants to do a deep dive  
… I'm glad Wendy and Mateus are working on it  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I compiled all the raw data into the report; we can share that  
… I stack-ranked the bar charts  
… didn't put in percentages, but that might be helpful  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we do need to strip out some personal info in that doc  

**Karen Myers:** is it anonymous?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** not yet  

**Wendy Reid:** there are a couple of fields that could be identified--IP address and email addresses  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'll go check but I don't think I had personal info?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we have a direction  

**George Kerscher:** there are some things that concern me in the raw data, people saying things that aren't true  
… do we filter those things out?  
… a lot of personal opinions stated as fact  

> *Ralph Swick:* [a teaching opportunity! ]

**George Kerscher:** if we have any conclusions about what our takeaways are from this  
… I do think this points us in certain directions  
… these are important conclusions  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** good point, George  
… we probably need to share what we think the key takeaways are  
… there are a number of people who self-identified as being interested in further conversations  
… so the BG should reach out  
… how might we do that?  

**Karen Myers:** can you repeat?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** 30 people said they'd be willing to have further conversations, and provided email  
… we need to enable those conversations?  
… do we do interviews? workshops?  
… how do we let those people express themselves?  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** are these people we already know, or are they new people?  
… we would treat those differently  
… maybe we don't have relationships with them at all  

**Tzviya Siegman:** once we have the summary from Wendy and Mateus, we might share with the BG as well as the people who asked to be informed  
… now that you have that info, what do you plan to do?  
… as we talk about our next steps, sharing that info would be important  
… if we do x, y, z because of the survey, we should let people know  
… maybe ask them to join CG  

**Luc Audrain:** could we have the list? are these people European?  
… we could try to have more local contact  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we need to be careful about sharing lists  
… there's a separate list of people who wanted further conversation  
… do we know them?  
… we need to figure that out first  

**Karen Myers:** to build on that  


**Karen Myers:** I can also compare to former TPI and IDPF list and our big contacts list to see if we've talked to them before  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's do that  

**Ralph Swick:** in addition to Karen's comment, and Cristina's comment about personal outreach  
… from personal contacts we might discover themes, and invite some to one of these meetings to discuss  

### 3. PBGSC F2F
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we talked about survey, what we were seeing, identifying there is still work to do on epub  
… and a need for backlist compatibility  
… so we started to work on a charter for an EPUB 3 Working Group, chaired by dauwhe and wendyreid  
… and we talked about the CG as important for incubating ideas  
… what else? what questions?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we did a lot of assessing about how the publishing activity has worked from the start  
… and recognized that it has not always gone smoothly  
… and we're open to thoughts on that  
… I was surprised about how well the meeting went  
… we came away with a desire to make this successful  
… we need a place for the community voice  
… and leadership from all over  
… we need to document all the business and technical cases  
… we need better definitions than "aligning with the web"  
… and need to be more specific  

**Ralph Swick:** well said, liisamk and tzviya  
… and thanks to the host, Wiley  
… liisamk, you mentioned the WG charter  
… what kind of time frame do we think such a charter might be available for public comment  
… there was a desire to communicate clearly  

**Karen Myers:** one of the feedbacks... because I have multiple regions, recently back from Australia, Brazil, Canada  
… there's not enough interaction with those regions  
… they feel like they're ignored  
… even by their parent companies  
… so there's a need for more international input  

**Ivan Herman:** to come back to Ralph's question  
… from a content point of view, the work is well underway  
… it could go public  
… but the whole issue about EPUB going to REC, it won't be easy  
… what would make me more comfortable, but with some public communication in the form of a blog  
… that on a very high level gives a summary of a week ago, and how we reached that conclusion  
… I think that should go out first  
… not the technical text of the charter  
… but we should go ahead, but with this blog post first  

**Dave Cramer:** there's already a lot of work on the charter from the CG  
… deliberately designed to be adaptable to a WG charter  
… there's still work to be done, especially figuring out how to digest the information from the survey  
… take stuff from the survey that's appropriate for a Rec-Track EPUB3  
… that make be our most technically challenging task for the charter  
… agree with Ivan that we need to clearly express our reasoning and goals  
… I am willing to draft a blog for the community on why we want to take EPUB to Rec  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I can help Dave  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can help as well  

**Ralph Swick:** great, thanks Dave and Tzviya and Liisa  
… it would help to... we have the community here... but there's also a wider community  
… I would encourage us to start socializing this in the wider community now, so we can incorporate feedback from the larger community in the charter  
… publish early, publish often  
… we should express why we think this is the right direction, and point to a draft  
… and then encourage comments on the draft  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** the goal of the blog post is to get people involved--to create motivation and inclusion  
… we want the community to be involved  

**Ivan Herman:** that, but not only that  
… the charter text is deliberately a relatively terse text, concise  
… so it needs some sort of a background explanation  
… to avoid people misunderstanding the charter  

> *Ralph Swick:* [that background explainer can be the blog post that Dave is starting, right?!]

**Ivan Herman:** the charter text is a legal contract, and you need some explanation of the contract  

**Luc Audrain:** high-level comms is very important  
… i would be happy to see in that blog post that some very important decisions have been made around backward compatibility  
… and that the CG will play a major role  
… so that the full publishing community will see this as a well-managed process  
… and there is an intention of preserving the existing base  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with Luc  

> *Ralph Swick:* <Ralph> +1 to Luc

**Tzviya Siegman:** we should be talking not just to the existing epub community  
… but also to the web community  
… maybe we need an explainer  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** anything else?  

### 4. the role of the PBG
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** with new chairs, we wanted to talk about the PBG works  
… to determine whether there are business needs that percolate up from the CG  
… we talked about outreach, education, webinars...  
… how do we address misinformation?  
… we talked about guest speakers  
… we wanted to open that up for other ideas of how the BG would work  

**Karen Myers:** these are great topics  
… to Luc's point about communication  
… there needs to be a more focused collaboration  
… not only gathering names, but what is the best vehicle?  
… we have a CRM system for contacts  
… there needs to be more garden-tending  
… who are the people? what do they want?  

**Ralph Swick:** as I skimmed through the comments I was also surprised by misinformation  
… there are several classes of them  
… it might come out in some 1-on-1 calls  
… some broad info like misunderstanding about a11y of PDF and EPUB  
… that's an opportunity for more general blog posts  
… we can use the misinformation as a starting point for education  
… there's a range of responses we can give, from general blog posts to 1:1 conversation  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I feel contradictions between people in the industry and outside of it  
… many people are happy with the current ecosystem  
… and they want it maintained  
… but they want to see more chances of merging with publishing  
… The PBG can perform a role of being an entry point for those outside of publishing  
… especially from web-related content people  

**Luc Audrain:** webinars are a good idea  
… how do we make the connection to the people who answered the survey  
… does the webinar require a w3c account?  
… how do we reach the largest community possible?  

> *Ralph Swick:* [I see no reason to restrict attendance at a webinar]

**Luc Audrain:** and begin to address the misinformation we've seen?  

**George Kerscher:** DAISY has a zoom account with 500 seats  
… we've done webinars in the US on higher ed about EPUB that have been very effective  
… we would be happy to use that Zoom account for webinars  
… but we don't charge people; it should be free and open and available after  

> *Ralph Swick:* <ralph> +1 to George; free and open webinar(s)

**George Kerscher:** I did one webinar... rumble in publishing jungle, PDF vs EPUB and it was fun and instructive  

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1 to George - brilliant idea :)

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**George Kerscher:** it's a marketing campaign promoting good info about the publishing standards  
… it's a lot of work but then it's evergreen  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** EDRLab is organizing stuff for members; we can also share through them  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** if you have other ideas for PBG, let us know.  
… two other items on the agenda  

### 5. Bug GitHub
{: #section5}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I have a hundred bugs on reading systems that I would offer to get started  

### 6. The role of audio and video
{: #section6}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the least supported part of EPUB is audio and video embedding  
… which would be useful for education etc  

**George Kerscher:** totally agree  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** accessible audio and video  

**Luc Audrain:** of course  

**George Kerscher:** of course  

**Karen Myers:** I like both topics, especially the 2nd  
… I talked about a11y in Australia  
… I was surprised that a lot of people were not aware of the accessibility of EPUB  
… integrating audio and video is huge  

> *Julie Blair:* +1 for accessible audio and video

**Karen Myers:** and the idea of having guest speakers present? that might be a good area.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** this topic occurred to me because of amazon  
… they were asking about enhanced typesetting for enhanced ebooks  
… we haven't made a lot of these books lately  
… at the start it was gratuitous use of tech  
… we could maybe do it better now?  

**Ralph Swick:** back on previous topic  
… since George mentioned rumble in jungle  
… I found announcement but not recording  

**George Kerscher:** it was in a paid webinar which I won't do again  

> *Ralph Swick:* See ["announcement of WEBINAR: The Rumble in the Publishing Jungle: PDF and EPUB duke it out!"](https://www.ahead.org/events/event-description?CalendarEventKey=05e4648a-2132-4411-a68d-3d4a2e1193fc&Home=%2Fevents%2Fcalendar)

**Ralph Swick:** there's a member-only list  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we are at the hour  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** thinking about audio and video, it would be useful for educational material  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we have upcoming meetings  
… we should try to have some aus/SA calls  
… thanks  

---
