---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-01-21
title: Publishing Business Group Telecon — 2020-01-21
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
        "dateCreated": "2020-01-21",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
            "startDate": "2020-01-21",
            "endDate": "2020-01-21",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jun’Ichi Yoshii"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Murata Makoto"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-01-21

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/01/21-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Shinya Takami, Jun’Ichi Yoshii, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Murata Makoto

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let's get started  

### 1. epubcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Apple is committing $20,000  
… confirmed via George  
… and 10k from APL thanks to jyoshii  
… we still need 15k  
… we are very close  
… since epub 4.2.2 is working well enough, this means people might not be wanting to fund  
… but we still need the money to complete the work program, correct bugs, etc.  
… I am trying to reach out to Japan and Asia industry partners  
… going on beyond w3c members  
… trying to reach out with Bill K, etc  
… to all other industry organizations around the world  
… to finish raising the 15k  
… we might get 2k from ????  
… I would appreciate everyone in Japan and elsewhere, let's focus on this to achieve our goal  
… any questions?  

### 2. PBG call schedule confirmed
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I listed in the agenda the calls for the first half of the year  
… any questions about the call schedule?  
… you should have info from garth  

**Shinya Takami:** schedule is...  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** it should always be on the same day of the week; it should be on Wednesday in Japan  
… did you see any contradictory data?  

**Shinya Takami:** march 17 is Tuesday?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let me double check  
… and I will provide correct information  
… and I can ask Garth to update the invitations  

### 3. epub roadmap survey
{: #section3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I was hoping that Liisa could talk about it  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#)

**Dave Cramer:** survey is gdoc; link above  
… comments welcome  
… hoping for soft launch by beginning of February  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** do you know what the timing might me?  

**Dave Cramer:** I don't know about the mechanics of turning this into an actual survey & hosting  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** so content is probably done by the end of next week?  

**Dave Cramer:** yes  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** members of japan/asia publishing business group people  
… I am intending to send out notes about some research I made when I was in Japan in December  
… and I will try to incorporate some of what I learned for the EPUB roadmap  
… when you get the notes please get back to me with your thoughts and ideas  
… feel free to respond in Japanese or English  

**Murata Makoto:** survey long time ago about possible extensions of epub3  
… will be that added?  
… it had 200 features, some covered by epub 3 already  
… there are some features like running heads, page layout stuff  
… can we incorporate that document in the survey?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** what i was talking about was the list of inquiries  
… I wanted to share the information I got from several people from Japan and asia publishing community  
… the things they want to see in the epub roadmap  
… I will share that info with you, and then will incorporate what I hear from you all  
… if ENPAJ stuff already exists, you could include it in the gdoc?  

**Murata Makoto:** what's the URL of gdoc?  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#heading=h.7x3vv1z1bna](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#heading=h.7x3vv1z1bna)

**Murata Makoto:** if there are publishing features that are needed, we should request  

**Shinya Takami:** it's difficult because of English  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the original version of guidelines is in Japanese. Is there an english version?  

> *Murata Makoto:* [http://ebpaj.jp/counsel/youbou](http://ebpaj.jp/counsel/youbou)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** yes  
… we could include a single line about the list of recommendation in the EBPAJ doc  
… that could be included  

**Shinya Takami:** the EBPAJ doc is over five years old, and it's out of date  
… the japanese ebook business is drastically changed  
… and publishers in japan would not request the same features now  

**Murata Makoto:** I agree that some features which were requested are now irrelevant  
… but some things japanese publishing still cares about, like centering titles in page  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** it sounds like someone should review the EBPAJ document  
… from 2013  
… whatever still-viable questions and requests exist in there, we could include in the survey  
… would it be possible for you, murata-san, to take a look, and provide the things to the survey  

**Murata Makoto:** yes  
… I have ten features in mind :)  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** you already made several points about epub 3.2 or whatever is coming  
… after TPAC fukuoka you presented some of them  
… and there is a recent APL presentation where you made some points  
… so I wanted to get in touch with you to secure the ideas we should include into the survey  

**Shinya Takami:** OK  

### 4. PWG audiobooks standards
{: #section4}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I listed the latest info in the agenda, the info is in github  
… what the status is right now  
… and there will be a webinar with BISG on February 18 about the audiobook standard  
… any questions?  

### 5. PBGSC F2F, February 24
{: #section5}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the agenda is still being discussed  
… some possible topics  

**Dave Cramer:** dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:dauwhe:c  

> *Dave Cramer:* .. 2. leadership of groups

**Dave Cramer:** 3. Survey  
… 4. EPUB Roadmap  
… 5. EPUB testing  
… 6. relationship with other working groups--ARIA, CSS, etc  
… 7. Community Building Strategy  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we'll keep you updated  
… highly likely that scope of publishing groups will be one of the bigger issues.  
… this will be an important meeting.  
… and before, I can discuss with all of you here  
… and talk with other japan PBG members  

### 6. a11y
{: #section6}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** when we had chairs meeting  
… Some japanese publishers were inquiring about a11y  
… since there are lots of regulations in europe and the U.S  
… and that should be taken into account in Japanese publishing industry  
… so all the links I provided here, this is what the japanese publishers could be referring to  
… and they can consider what european and U.S. publishers are implementing in response to these regulations  

> *Murata Makoto:* My talk in a recent APL seminar provides an overview of trade book a11y.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** there are courses provided by W3C  
… and docs from ??? which are translated into Japanese  

**Murata Makoto:** I gave a talk about a11y at APL  
… a high-level overview; that might be a good starting point for japanese publishers  
… I can provide a link  

> *Murata Makoto:* [https://www.aplab.jp/symposium04](https://www.aplab.jp/symposium04)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** what would be the best way to share the information to the community?  
… through EBPAJ, etc.?  

**Murata Makoto:** for some reason the link to my powerpoint is broken; I will fix  
… if people see my powerpoint and recorded presentation, they will get a good high-level overview  
… this is the best place to start  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** how can we share outside of APL? But it's import to share with EBPAJ members, comic association etc  
… I will send out this info to EBPAJ managing direction, and to digital comic association, and ???  
… and could you all give me some links to share?  

**Jun’Ichi Yoshii:** I talked with ??? yesterday  
… we have already been approached about a11y issues  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** anything else?  
… thanks everyone!  

---
