---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-02-04
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2020-02-04
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-02-04",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-02-04",
            "endDate": "2020-02-04",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ralph Swick"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wolfgang Schindler"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Luc Audrain"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Cristina Mussinelli"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Laurent Le Meur"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Julie Blair"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-02-04

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2020Feb/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/02/04-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Wendy Reid, Wolfgang Schindler, Dave Cramer, Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Luc Audrain, Cristina Mussinelli, Jeff Jaffe, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Ralph Swick, Avneesh Singh, Garth Conboy, Laurent Le Meur, Julie Blair

**Regrets:** Bill Kasdorf, Tzviya Siegman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Jeff Jaffe, Ralph Swick

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Epubcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** George?  

**George Kerscher:** Apple has donated $20K  
… great news  

**Luc Audrain:** Great news  
… invite sent  
… waiting for the money  
… anxious for their logo  
… helps for now  
… still need $15K  
… pushing in Europe and Asia  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Pursuing in Japan and Taiwan  
… for Taiwan pursuing @@@  
… TDPF will donate $2K  
… going through election period  
… will also unlock budget  
… consider funding as well  
… assume $5K or so from Taiwan  
… also pursuing from Japanese Members and outside  
… I reached out to others with Iishan  
… hope to pursue remaining $10K from Japan  
… BillK, Yoshi-san will reach out with email to global community  

**Luc Audrain:** Still waiting for Europe/France  
… small company figured 1 cent per epubcheck  
… that would yield much money  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Great thought about the math  

**Wendy Reid:** Korea?, China?, India?, Singapore... any outreach?  
… weren't they at TPAC summit?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Outside of Japan and Taiwan - no reps in PBG  
… please provide other contacts so we can reach out  
… BillK will reach out as well  

**George Kerscher:** With Korea, epub is national standard  
… they put forward to ISO  
… Dr. Ho presented at our publishing conference a few years ago  
… I'll take action to contact him  
… Pearson is a Full Member  
… I have a good contact - Jonathan Thurston (?) and also check with AC rep  
… I'll make the pitch.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Thanks George. Congratulations about Apple  

**Ivan Herman:** AC rep for Pearson David Stroup, we was at several WG meetings  

### 2. Survey
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Dave and I have a really good draft  
… we will use Survey Monkey to distribution  
… Brian from BISG will allow us to use his instance  
… find out later today  
… initial distribution to SC to test  
… then publishing @w3C later this week  
… then into next week  
… 2 Q's  
… 1. Asking what is the most important thing to learn?  
… 2. How do we get beyond publishing @ w3c community  

**Wendy Reid:** `#eproduction` hash tag on twitter will reach the people we want  
… also epub3 CG mailing list  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to EPUB3 CG mailing list

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Publishing @w3C already includes the CG  

**Jeff Jaffe:** What about publishers associations  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** That is for international outreach  

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* maybe also national publishers' and booksellers' associations such as Boersenverein des deutschen Buchhandels

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* e.g. AKEP on Frankfurt book fair

**Luc Audrain:** Yes - associations on each continent  
… but more generic, less digital  

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* they might have WG on digital products

**Luc Audrain:** national organizations  
… Editeur, London book fair  
… external task force has list of structures to contact  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** We can handle in Italy  
… active people we know  

**George Kerscher:** I'm on higher ed lists  
… accessibility related  
… if this group agrees, I can post there  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Very helpful...survey has section on educators  
… what about professional publications  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** STM publishers  

**Luc Audrain:** For professional publishing - conference like XML Prague  
… Dave?  

**Dave Cramer:** I don't know the audience  

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* XML Prague has its focus on XML experts, but many of them come from publishers

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* including STM

> *Ralph Swick:* Jeff: there are some newsletters and magazines that would be good to publish short articles

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Great suggestion. We should look at getting this written up in other places.  

> *Garth Conboy:* Perhaps: [https://lunch.publishersmarketplace.com/](https://lunch.publishersmarketplace.com/)

**Cristina Mussinelli:** National organizations as well  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** There is also the second question - the most important thing to learn  
… Thanks, Garth for the link  

**Luc Audrain:** A blog post at W3C  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Also a great idea  

> *Cristina Mussinelli:* [https://www.publishersweekly.com](https://www.publishersweekly.com)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can reach out to Publishers weekly  

> *Cristina Mussinelli:* [https://publishingperspectives.com](https://publishingperspectives.com)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Again, most important thing to learn from survey?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Roadmap  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Survey is epub heavy  
… address professional publishing marketplace  

**Dave Cramer:** I don't know what Idk.  
… hope to be surprised  
… validation or repudiation  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** +1 to Dave  
… widen the circle  
… learn what we don't know  
… collect names of people who want to be involved  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Today I joined in to WoT and Media and Entertainment  
… I will reach out to them and to Immersive  
… interest in publishing arena  

**Luc Audrain:** Agree with Dave about learning what we don't know  
… that requires reaching out to those we don't usually reach  
… external channels most important  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** When I looked at questions this morning I saw we had nothing for Audio. Should we add?  

**Ivan Herman:** I hope to get feedback on what the community wants from the web  
… how epub relates to the web  
… not technical html stuff, but  
… role of digital books on the web  

**Avneesh Singh:** Agree with Ivan  
… we are seeking inputs from external community, at the same time we should also get views of W3C community beyond publishing groups.
… they may have some good inputs, or they may have grievances, that would be good to learn as well 

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** response to Ivan  
… we have some Q's for education and professional about tying in to the web  
… but may need special section on how pubs relate to web as a whole  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to liisamk

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'll send out suggested questions  
… Audio?  

**Wendy Reid:** In audiobooks process we've learned that they are different people than epub people  
… finding them is a problem  
… not much carryover  
… so I'm not concerned about not having audio questions  
… don't need longer survey  

**Dave Cramer:** What Wendy said  
… focus should be epub  
… don't need to add audiobooks  

### 3. PBG Co-Chair search
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** I am retiring in April  
… long preparation  
… discussing with my colleagues; co-chairs  
… looking for Europe  
… I believe I have found someone  
… Cristina accepted to propose her candidacy  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** Thank you for proposing me  
… pleasure  
… important to have someone from Europe  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1 to Cristina candidacy!

**Cristina Mussinelli:** new legislation for accessibility  
… standard for epub  
… I've been involved for a long time: IDPF, W3C  
… know Liisa and Daihei for a long time  

> *Dave Cramer:* “This group chooses their Chair(s) and can replace the Chair(s) at any time using whatever means they prefer.”

> *Dave Cramer:* from [https://www.w3.org/2017/02/PublishingBGcharter](https://www.w3.org/2017/02/PublishingBGcharter)

**Dave Cramer:** For the record  
… the group chooses the chair  
… Cristina an excellent choice  
… but up to the group  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Yes, we are opening candidacy  

**Luc Audrain:** Yes, a proposal  
… chairs have discussed  
… are proposing one person  
… not closed  
… will not step down right now  
… will work until end of March  
… parallel person  
… interesting to have a decision now  
… Cristina can gather information  
… my replacement should be aware of conversations  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We need to open candidacy through email  

**Luc Audrain:** Right  

**Jeff Jaffe:** New AC rep for Hachette?  

**Luc Audrain:** Being discussed  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We need worldwide representation  
… also build beyond US/Europe/Asia  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Process-wise, should send out email  
… two weeks later; PBG call US/Asia  
… before SC on 24 Feb should finalize  
… what is the process prior to that?  

**Luc Audrain:** I propose we do things simply  
… 1. Anyone can propose a candidate  
… a mail sent today or tomorrow to open candidacy  
… mention Cristina as a candidate  
… open for a week  
… if no other candidate we consider Cristina is the only candidate  
… accepted if no objection  
… resolution during a call - next call in two weeks (US/Asia) has not many people  
… build specific call possibly  
… maybe simpler by mail  
… should tell Cristina ASAP  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1 to Luc

**Luc Audrain:** we can have such a resolution  
… any objections?  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* +1

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Dave Cramer:* +1

> *Laurent Le Meur:* +1

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

> *Ralph Swick:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We are agreed.  

> *George Kerscher:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Thanks Cristina  
… and Luc  
… for your outreach and service  
… you will be with us until the end  
… we will have time to celebrate  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** Want to thank Luc  
… process fine with me  
… any final decision fine with me  

### 4. PBG Goals
{: #section4}

**Cristina Mussinelli:** last US/Europe call before SC  
… end of February  
… anything in particular as input to planning meeting  

**Wendy Reid:** Attendance has not been great on the calls  
… we should learn why people have stepped away  
… might want to pose question to the group  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Fine suggestions  

**Jeff Jaffe:** building on Wendy's question, looking at today's agenda a lot is internal-related things  
… discussion of our internal community  
… the agenda doesn't include actions about how to make epub more successful  
… people had talked about learning from the survey how to grow the group  
… I offer a theory that getting us focussed on the business of EPUB a bit better would be useful  

**George Kerscher:** Epub in higher ed working group  
… I have 48 people on the list  
… we discuss webinars, we develop Q&A bot, very vibrant exciting group  
… developing publisher faceoff for accessibility at CSUN  
… completely different from this group  
… implementation, adoption  
… very effective  
… focuses on one subsegment  

**Luc Audrain:** I'm concerned that we don't include EDRlab enough  
… important part of community  
… created with initiate from Pierre Danet  
… Laurent is an editor of LPF  
… particularly digital publishing summit  

**Dave Cramer:** Could you describe more how we "don't include EDRlab enough"  
… we've gone to the conference  
… we work with Laurent all the time  
… he's welcome to participate  
… what else should we do?  
… participating is individuals and companies joining up  

**Luc Audrain:** On topic of organizing conferences  
… not just individuals  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** follow-up on co-chair search email  
… follow-up on mailing list about "goals"  

**Avneesh Singh:** We have reduced the number of calls in favor of having more task forces  
… but not a lot of task forces  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* Thanks Liisa

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Thanks for time today  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* [adjourned]

---
