---
layout: minutes
date: 17/18 March 2020
title: Publishing Business Group Telecon — 17/18 March 2020
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
        "dateCreated": "17/18 March 2020",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telecon",
            "startDate": "17/18 March 2020",
            "endDate": "17/18 March 2020",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "daihei shiohama"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jun’Ichi Yoshii"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "junko kamata"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 17/18 March 2020

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/03/19-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Jun’Ichi Yoshii, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Shinya Takami, Junko Kamata, Murata Makoto, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Digital Publishing Survey
{: #section1}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** sent out Feb 7, almost a month  
… getting a lot of inputs from people  
… more than 270 results  

> *:* jeff joined (Jeff@public.cloak)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** explain overall summary  
… explanation of the way we will share  

**Shinya Takami:** are there responses from Japan?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we don't know exactly how many, there were not questions for that, but there are answers that were in Japanese  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** ask about communication of survey results to Japanese market  


**Jun’Ichi Yoshii:** idea is that there is supposed to be an annual get together for APL  
… will happen somehow and one agenda item will be to report about the survey summary  
… the blog post about the F2F could also be shared  
… the japanese community when we sent out the survey, Daihei and Yoshii-san sent to Japanese industry organizations  
… will check back in with them and see that they see results too  
… large membership with educational publishing to share as well  

### 2. Blog Post
{: #section2}


**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** explain about the blog post to be public shortly and what was discussed at the meeting  
… EPUB 3.2 moving to rec track  
… new WG for this work  

**Murata Makoto:** concerned about 3.2 on rec track  
… worried about removing features with no implementations  
… if W3C procedures will apply  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** backwards compatability is important and anything that is used somewhere should be supported  

**Murata Makoto:** is a charter issue, not yet done  

> *Murata Makoto:* Qq+

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** translate this convo back into english  

**Murata Makoto:** I understand we are under the control of the W3C procedure doc and I am concerned  

> *:* Jkamata joined (~Jkamata@public.cloak)

**Shinya Takami:** rather than the concern from Murata-san, what is very important is that any change of EPUB 3.2 will be sll impact to ndustry n Japan  

> *Murata Makoto:* I agree to drop features that are not really used.

> *Jun’Ichi Yoshii:* +1 to Takami-san

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** backward compatibility is a core premise for moving to Rec Track  

> *Murata Makoto:* I am glad that we are not going to repeat the mistake of 3.1.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there is great understanding from the SC and people working on the charter to ensure that we can support the eustry and also  
… find a way to move forward with a W3C standard  

**Jun’Ichi Yoshii:** summarizing his understanding from membership of SC  
… people talked about backward compatibility and not messing with global epub ecosystem  
… co-chairs of PBG and all other chairs of PBG have confirmed backwards compatibility as a key issue  

**Murata Makoto:** have to make sure that normative references are standard  
… there are non-stable and non-normative references  
… don't think it is an easy task  
… if everyone cares about backwards compatibility  
… worried about the work, but not as much unintended changes  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** keep close eye on the charter work and raise concerns  
… PBG will make sure that you will not be disappointed and will make sure that your concerns are raised  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** happy to see that we are building the future on the roots of what is already successfully used for business  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the blog also talks about the future of the groups to support this work  
… PBG role is confirmed that we will be working with the coordination of business for global publishing interests  
… PBG co-chairs will remain as Daihei, Liisa and Luc  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** PBG will also be working to vet business interest in innovations coming from CG for future standardization  
… and to coordinate communication and outreach for better understanding of EPUB and standards in the publishing world  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** would like to have more participation in Japan for PBG and more voices in Asia and help to make that happen  
… to have more exciting conversation and more information, we will have some guest speakers to address specific issues  
… maybe to talk about LCP or other W3C groups  
… would like to hear thoughts from PBG members about who they would like to hear from  

**Junko Kamata:** extend invitations to people, need to go beyond trade to education publishers  
… their participation would be very important  
… extend to more people and try to get to calls  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the next call is 3/31 and would be 4/1 in Japan  
… next Asia call is 4/15  

**Murata Makoto:** when will EPUB WG charter be ready for review?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** not sure, we'll try to find out  

---
