---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-10-04
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2019-10-04
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-10-04",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-10-04",
            "endDate": "2019-10-04",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Matt Garrish"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ralph Swick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-10-04

See also the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/10/04-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Luc Audrain, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Matt Garrish, Dave Cramer, Garth Conboy, Ralph Swick, Jeff Jaffe

**Regrets:** Rachel Comerford, Wendy Reid, George Kerscher, Mateus Teixeira

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Ivan Herman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUBCheck progress and funding
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** epubcheck dev is going on  
… they are finalizing the test suite, 1000+ tests, not yet very well organized  
… the idea is that anybody can take the development up  
… cleanup going on so that anybody can pick it up later  
… we are fully in Daisy's Phase 2  
… in parallel we have to re-launch fundraising  
… with the help of George I made an update of the epubcheck fundraising page  
… saying that phase 1 is done, and now we do further work, open source development, etc  
… the page is not enough, we have to communicate  
… to all our members and beyond  
… the publishing community, users, distributors  
… 50K$ are still missing  
… if we do not have that, we have to stop the project  
… the page contains the list of companies that already donated  
… there are some countries that did not give much  
… some did a lot like Japan  
… Europe is lagging, I will use my network to disseminate the information  
… to get the final dollars in the bank  
… there is a milestone to pay Daisy beginning next year  
… if we do not have this money by the end of the year we will be in a difficulty  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Luc and I made it clear at the PBG meeting in Fukuoka  
… I will further solicit the industry organizations to fund to some degree  
… APL will invest some more than 10K  
… there are couple of others I am approaching  

**Luc Audrain:** thanks, great news  
… IDPF Web site  
… no other agenda, except the mail of Billk that the IDPF web site is down  
… but this week I checked it was working well  
… I do not know what is happening and whether we want to discuss it here?  

**Ralph Swick:** I am aware of this and I am on it  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* Ralph++

**Ralph Swick:** I was alerted that this might need attention, was planning to let you all know in this meeting, and also Charles sent me a mail 2 hours ago

### 2. EPUB Rec-track discussion
{: #section2}

**Jeff Jaffe:** there was a discussion on the BG call and a followup email discussion on epub3 as rec issue  
… Dave said that there will be a roadmap discussion on the CG  
… I did express that the roadmap discussion should be included into the Rec related issue  
… I am not sure the SC needs to be part of this discussion  

**Dave Cramer:** the cg going to be discussing the roadmap on Thursday  
… i would hope to have the discussion there first before it comes to any group  

**Jeff Jaffe:** anybody on the team will be there?  

**Ralph Swick:** looking at my calendar  

**Jeff Jaffe:** could you send the agenda call to the sc?  

**Luc Audrain:** this is very good thing that the cg is discussing this  
… but it is not yet Frankfurt after all, I will be there  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do you think it is helpful to put a bit conversation to the bg on what books you want to make into an epub and you cannot?  

**Dave Cramer:** this is very useful information  
… I would prefer not discuss the epub rec issue before the cg has a discussion on what it is proposing  
… to make it bottom up rather than top down  
… this is a process and not something to be discussed once on Thursday  
… these are complicating issues that will be discussed over a longer time  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I agree with Dave's opinion  

### 3. Misc
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** discussing with amazon a11y  
… we could not do it in fukuoka  
… we will have a call with a number people (Peter Korn, ???)  
… the call is planned next week with Federation of European Publishers, George, Avneesh are also involved  

---
