---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-09
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2019-08-09
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-09",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-08-09",
            "endDate": "2019-08-09",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Mateus Teixeira"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Matt Garrish"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rachel Comerford"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-08-09

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2019Aug/0010.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/09-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Mateus Teixeira, Ivan Herman, Dave Cramer, George Kerscher, Luc Audrain, Wendy Reid, Matt Garrish, Jeff Jaffe, Garth Conboy, Rachel Comerford

**Regrets:** Avneesh Singh, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Luc Audrain, Jeff Jaffe

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Luc Audrain:* so mny chicken?

**Luc Audrain:** I sent an agenda yesterday with two main items  

### 1. EPUBCheck Development
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** project is still running; there are milestones this fall  
… we have been talking about on the management call  
… we could reconfigure the dates  
… the doc has a more detailed timeline  
… it's not a big change  
… just a one-month delay  
… so we would have to pay for documentation and refactoring/cleanup  
… paid end of August  
… can I ask for your approval?  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [updated timeline for epubcheck](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2019Aug/att-0010/Updated_timeline_of_EPUBCheck_1_.docx)

**Luc Audrain:** stage two finishes at the beginning of next year.  
… any questions?  
… I will consider that you approved this change.  
… there will be a management call on 22 August  

### 2. Amazon
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Jeff sent us an email about amazon's particaption  

**Jeff Jaffe:** the AB meets four times a year; this week we met in Seattle  
… in the evening we meet with locals  
… as we did in NYC last year  
… since we were in Seattle, and Amazon is a new w3c member  
… it was suggested that we meet up with amazon  
… there were 6-8 amazonians, 3 related to kindle  
… they only sent people where they had a specific agenda  
… Avneesh put together some issues, which attracted people to the meetup  
… 3 people from kindle team, 2 who have recently joined CSSWG  
… they seemed interested in w3c stuff  
… and eager to work together  
… we talked about some specifics  
… they ingest EPUB, but lose some a11y info  
… which is unfortunate  
… Avneesh, Florian, and I are the AB members with some knowledge of publishing  
… I talked to Stanton and Giorgio... you'll be at TPAC, would you be OK working with the EPUB community on issues of mutual interest?  
… they said sure, let's do that.  
… Giorgio on the Kindle side  
… none of them were audible folks  
… so I'd like to have the SC appoint someone to work with them  
… and let's spend some time together at TPAC  
… wendyreid can add something to PWG agenda  
… and they may be joining the EPUB 3 CG  

**Luc Audrain:** this is good news  
… and a great opportunity  

**George Kerscher:** I've met with joanna before  
… they have given me some things they want to see coming out of EPUB and other areas  
… it would be great if the kindle group could voice these things directly instead of going through me  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1 -- very encouraging

**George Kerscher:** Joanna has publicly said that the best input for Kindle is reflowable EPUB 3  

**Luc Audrain:** in europe, we are seeking contact with amazon people in context of euro a11y act  
… the kindle guidelines ask publishers to create good EPUB files  
… even EPUB3 born accessible files... we are eager so that the efforts done in europe for production accessible epub3 convert correctly and with no loss in kindle format  
… Gregorio P. did some tests, and we know there some issues, some loss of a11y information  
… so we had to chance to meet an amazon manager from europe in a meeting setup by the french minister of culture  
… explaining the consequences of the euro a11y act in the future  
… both on ebooks and the selling platforms  
… that concerns amazon  
… and Fernando met these guys in Brussels in july  
… so there will be a meeting in october with Cristina M, etc  
… we want to discuss a11y and also about amazon approval of EPUB a11y specifications  
… for best ingestion format for kindlegen tool  
… to build accessible mobi files  
… at the meeting we want to show the euro commission that there is already a good spec, epub a11y, and so something new isn't needed  
… and this is on an ISO track now  
… and so would become the Euro standard  
… we will meet in Europe, we can meet at TPAC  
… how might this be syncronized  

**Ivan Herman:** I was just wondering  
… is there a systematic overview of the EPUB 3 features that are forgotten by amazon  
… not only a11y but in general  
… so we would have a framework of areas where we could work towards syncronization  

**Luc Audrain:** Gregorio did tests from an accessible EPUB3  
… we don't have systematic analysis but we can identify some features  
… we don't know kindle format spec, as it is not public  

**Rachel Comerford:** I can give an example  
… Amazon recommends that you avoid tables in your EPUB, because they don't ingest or display properly in Kindle  

**Garth Conboy:** it's almost an a11y feature ;)  

**Luc Audrain:** there could be a slot for the PWG f2f in Fukuoka  

**Wendy Reid:** yes, that's the plan  
… I put it on our agenda list  
… I've met Stanton before  

**Ivan Herman:** I was wondering what the next step was  
… who should contact who  
… jeff, you said you would be happy to make an introduction  

**Dave Cramer:** contact with the PWG is great  
… their interest may be on EPUB3 , so the CG  
… it would be good to also talk about epub3  

**Ivan Herman:** the pwg can donate some time :)  

**Luc Audrain:** when I speak about issues with amazon in europe  
… if we want sync of these discussions, avneesh and I are on both sides, so we can help  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to jeff

**Jeff Jaffe:** first, to dave, the reason I suggested the PWG meeting was not about web publications, but because it there was an opportunity  
… the next step is to appoint someone to work the agenda  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to donate an hour to the CG

**Jeff Jaffe:** probably the best person would be someone with first-hand experience of the interop problems between EPUB and Kindle  

**Luc Audrain:** Rachel, you have experience  

**Rachel Comerford:** um...  

**Wendy Reid:** I was going to suggest... I'm happy to slot an hour for amazon in the meeting  
… but I'd love to have an agenda for it  
… jeff, if you can put both me and rachel in touch with stanton and giorgio, we can figure it all out together  

**Garth Conboy:** that works for me  
… the EPUB community, broadly speaking, does need to work with amazon  

**Luc Audrain:** the idea to have this time slot is a good idea  
… avneesh and I could have some part of working on the agenda  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I don't think we should have too many people working on the agenda  
… to garth's point about relationship building  
… I think we can do multiple things in an hour if we clearly communicate.  
… 15min on relationship, 15min on a11y, X minutes on interop, etc.  

**Luc Audrain:** what is the conclusion  

**Garth Conboy:** wendy and Rachel  

**Rachel Comerford:** I'm happy to do it. I have lots of experience with EPUB and Kindle  

**Jeff Jaffe:** everyone else, send your ideas to Wendy and Rachel  

**Luc Audrain:** wendy and rachel, you will be the contact, and then we will share the draft agenda?  

**Rachel Comerford:** yes  

**Luc Audrain:** other next steps?  
… I'll let you know when we have a date about the federation of european publishers meeting  

**Ivan Herman:** if i am optimistic and there is a goal at the end of the meeting for some convergence  
… this systematic list of issues is something the community could try to do  
… we'll need a place for that  

**George Kerscher:** regarding the euro directive  
… does that also require harmonization from PDF  
… folks from NISO have asked if i wanted to be more involved with PDF-UI (?) work  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, you are right  
… the euro a11y act doesn't speak about file formats, just says 'ebooks'  
… considered as services that need to be accessible  
… in 2025 all ebooks will have to be a11y  

> *Dave Cramer:* (have to stop scribing for about two minutes)

**Luc Audrain:** formats include PDF  
… George, if you have questions about PDF, LMK  

**George Kerscher:** Thank you.  

**Luc Audrain:** We are done with the topic. We have next steps and assignments.  
… Jeff?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Yup, we are done on this one.  

**Luc Audrain:** Next point on agenda  

### 3. PBG event in Japan
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** We have 4 items  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [latest version of the agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2019Aug/att-0017/0808Update_Agenda_TPAC_Fukuoka_PBG_F2F_Confefrence_2_.docx)

**Luc Audrain:** 4 people for them  
… confirmation from the people  
… first 2 are more informal  
… Murai-sensei keynote  
… one session on accessibility  
… ISO work - Murata-san  
… Daisy Japan people  
… last topic is more brainstorming about publishing  
… daihei has a chance to invite people from animation,  
… people here are still gathering  
… any more questions?  

### 4. WG TPAC agenda
{: #section4}

**Wendy Reid:** there's a google doc for the agendat  
… we'll discuss in the PWG meeting on Monday  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [F2F agenda page (to be completed)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q8PUjzMY04peuYZdTkA6A0BBoFea_BSK4ygJlphkzh8/edit)

**Luc Audrain:** Dave, you opened a discussion in the CG yesterday on the EPUB roadmap?  

### 5. EPUB discussion
{: #section5}

**Dave Cramer:** CG call yesterday started EPUB roadmap  
… very interesting discussions  
… on lot of cases figure out what is the scope for spec, RS, outside our control  
… design principles for EPUB, like HTML  
… foundation principles before starting  

**Luc Audrain:** it's very interesting to see the rapidity of reactions  
… and there is a larger community discussing things in the context of production all over the world  
… the cg is doing a very interesting job  
… not all these items belong to the spec or the cg  
… but people working every day with epub are expressing their concerns  
… any other business?  

> *Dave Cramer:* (silence)

**Luc Audrain:** thanks everyone, thank you dave for scribing.  

---
