---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-01-25
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2019-01-25
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-01-25

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2019Jan/0017.htm) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/01/25-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Karen Myers, Luc Audrain, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Jun-ichi Yoshii, Wendy Reid, Dave Cramer, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Garth Conboy, Bill Kasdorf

**Regrets:** Tzviya Siegman, George Kerscher

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Luc Audrain:** we are happy to confirm the nomination of Daihei as co-chair  
… we can work on the organization and goals for the group  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** we have a BG call next Tuesday  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I am honored to work with all of you  

### 1. EPUBCheck
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** I have the formal report from Avneesh  
… this is an important milestone  
… this brings 4.1.1 with several translations, and it's now used by the IDPF validator web site  
… we need to give an authorization for payment for this milestone  
… any objections?  

**Dave Cramer:** please give them money!  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to pay

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1 give them the money :)

**Luc Audrain:** I see no objections. I consider this adopted.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: pay the DAISY consortium on scheduled milestone of end of January, as development process is on-time.***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Bill Kasdorf:* kudos to DAISY for being on-time!

#### 1.1. Validator's URL
{: #section1-1}

**Luc Audrain:** there is a question in this discussion  
… the online validator is still on the IDPF domain name  
… it's been updated silently by Romain to use the last stable version, 4.1.1.  
… but we need to think about how we keep this online  
… and can we move it to a w3c domain?  
… I've also asked Romain if he has usage statistics for the validator?  

**Dave Cramer:** what do we do with IDPF web site ?  
… pages on IDPF says 3.1 is the current version  

**Dave Cramer:** there's a larger question about the IDPF web presence  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes, we need to figure out what to do  
… even the wikipedia page about EPUB is wildly out of date  
… we should update that  

**Luc Audrain:** do we need to set up a task force about this?  

**Dave Cramer:** I think this is a BG issue, as it is about IDPF as much as it is about EPUB  

**Luc Audrain:** we will bring to BG  
… there is an alpha of EPUBCheck for EPUB 3.2, so things are going well  

### 2. Events
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** we talked a while ago about having events at big conferences  
… I wanted to share with you that there's a digital publishing summit in June in Paris  
… we can talk about standards, EPUB 3.2, epubcheck, etc. I am part of the program committee.  

**Ivan Herman:** you partially answered my question  
… I was looking at this event, but I haven't even found a website  
… there is no real announcement  
… or info about doing it jointly with w3c  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I was contacted by Laurent the other day about this  
… I have solicited the APL to participate  
… and someone from APL will attend  
… and Laurent was asking if someone could speak at the conference  
… and I'm working with APL on finding someone  

**Ivan Herman:** that's great  

**Luc Audrain:** with Laurent, he shared that the place is settled, inside the French National Library  
… now we have to populate the program  
… the first contacts have been started  

**Karen Myers:** for marketing please contact Coralie for any support we might be able to provide  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Yes, the Paris summit is June 25-26

**Luc Audrain:** we were asking about what other kinds of events we could have in various places and times  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Dave or Rachel, do you know if there's any W3C presence at ebookcraft?  

**Dave Cramer:** I will give an epic rant at ebookcraft  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* will the epic rant be recorded?

**Wendy Reid:** I will be presenting on audiobook formats at techforum  

**Luc Audrain:** what could we think about for Fall? I spoke about Frankfurt  
… is there something that could be done in Japan around TPAC?  

**Ivan Herman:** Wendy, Dave, or anyone? Can you send information on ebookcraft?  

> *Dave Cramer:* [http://techforum.booknetcanada.ca/ebookcraft/](http://techforum.booknetcanada.ca/ebookcraft/)

**Ivan Herman:** this is partly a BG question, but there are other areas where we are weak  
… and we might want to think about how to get to those  
… Bill_Kasdorf is at home in scholarly  
… I don't know what events there are on Manga etc  
… and there are other areas which are not traditionally epub-related  
… I don't know where or what they are  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I'm speaking at an STM event in Japan in April

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** about TPAC in September  
… there might be a chance, I don't think there's already an event  
… if it is to be done, it should be organized by APL, but they don't have the budget  
… I can discuss this with Yoshi-san etc  
… and can come back to y'all  

**Luc Audrain:** re: manga/BD/Comics, there is an event in France today  
… next year, anything that the CG creates as a prototype would be exposed there  
… it's end of January  

**Luc Audrain:** Bill_Kasdorf, can you take this to the external task force, especially in STEM/scholarly?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** that's a good idea  
… I'm speaking at an STM event in Japan in April  
… the program for SSP is already closed  
… same for the university press program in June  
… I want to do these separately, because I want to do fundraising too  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to bill and 2 communications

**Dave Cramer:** if we want to think about these events, we need to plan much more in advance  
… I have to have my travel budget submitted by now; event programs closed already  

**Luc Audrain:** We should think about 2020?  

**Dave Cramer:** yes  
… and focus on our goals; where would we be most effective; bandwidth, where to concentrate our resources  
… have some principals beyond doing something in conjunction with this conference  

> *Dave Cramer:* laudrain: so we should now think about 2020

**Luc Audrain:** that is subject for the BG  

> *Dave Cramer:* ... that's a topic for the BG

> *Karen Myers:* +1 advance planning in BG

**Luc Audrain:** any other comments?  

### 3. feedback from the AB meetup in NYC
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there were six of our eight publishing co-chairs there  
… a small group of other pub folks  
… a good chunk of the AB  
… Jeff, Ralph, Wendy S  
… Tzviya created an amazing agenda  
… and taking us from topic to topic  
… it was an amazing evening  
… we talked about packaging, and got interesting stuff from David Singer and Kenji B.  
… it was a really really good dialog and questions  
… Dave did the background of EPUB, and how it relates to web tech  
… wendyreid talked about the audio work and moving it forward without settled web packaging  

**Luc Audrain:** the idea to have some high-level... how could we have high-level goals brought from this meeting, so it could be fuel for the BG  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes  
… I'll get back tot hat  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I'm interested in the feedback from the AB  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there was a presentation from Robin Berjon who talked about how to work with web developers  
… treat them like humans, bring examples...  
… it was depressing because it's so much work  
… Leonie Watson talked about the a11y community's relationship with browsers  
… and how it took years to do a very small thing  
… "this web standards stuff takes forever"  
… Tzviya, Rachel, and I talked about the CG/BG/WG  
… and talked about the struggles of the BG  
… it's hard to deal with the chicken/egg problem until the horse is out of the barn  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* or the chickens flew the coop?

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we need to get ahead of the curve a bit  
… and there was a QA between the AB and the publishers  
… there are issues of resources  
… we talked about the challenge of (trigger warning) DRM  
… at the end, Jeff said that this conversation was fantastic, it was way more interesting than our BG/SC meetings  
… so how do we bring this energy back to the group?  

**Dave Cramer:** Jeff mentioned that he understood better the tension between business and technology  

**Luc Audrain:** was there any talk of LCP?  

**Dave Cramer:** yes, and I emphasized that some sort of DRM is essential for library ebook lending  

**Karen Myers:** I know this was an opportunistic meeting  
… do you see an opportunity for other regional discussions or meetups?  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, perhaps in Europe in Paris around the end of June we could have such an event  

**Karen Myers:** maybe that's the model, and we could also try at TPAC  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think we could do more regional meetups and conversations  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 regional meet-ups

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I had an interesting conversation with Leslie Hulse afterwards  
… the way that w3c works that is still is not comfortable for business people  
… it's still too technical  
… she's fascinated by the audio stuff, but doesn't care about packaging  
… she wants to know about vendors and requirements. she wants to know if it gets there, will it be an easy sell.  
… we need to do better at helping them understand  

**Karen Myers:** that's a great point  

**Ivan Herman:** there is also the other direction  
… how the WG affects the BG  
… but there needs to be two-way communication.  
… Back to the original question  
… the issue is not meetings with the AB, because they have other goals  
… the essential point to have regular meeting with the developer community  
… there is a regular french conf on webdev (Parisweb)  
… and that's where we should have a meeting  
… we need to reach out to Parisweb  
… that's the relationship that's weak  

**Ivan Herman:** for example, it's too late for this year, but the big tech conference is in Taipei in 2020, there's an opportunity with publishers and webtech over there  

**Wendy Reid:** Ivan and I are on the same page  
… the meetup was productive, but we don't always need the AB  
… many of us are already attending certain things, we could put on events to reach out to the local publishing community  
… we get face time with people affected about what we do, and get feedback  
… like Leslie's feedback--I only hear that F2F  
… we should look at our future events and see what we can do  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I'm hearing two different things  
… planning in advance, so we can get on program at conferences is a way of messaging to large groups  
… but the real value of NY meeting was that it was small  
… you can do both  
… the latter can be done at the last minute  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Bill_Kasdorf

**Bill Kasdorf:** and independently  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** wendyreid: I agree we need to do more to have casual events when we are all somewhere  
… but it's hard to justify travel to meet webdevs  
… I'm still struggling to get permission to go to TPAC when I'm a co-chair  
… going to a web conference is a stretch  
… my 2020 travel budget happens in July of 2019  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1 to Liisa

**Karen Myers:** a few practical things  
… the NYC event did require a lot of effort for logistics and sponsorships  
… venues cost money. catering costs money.  
… much has to happen to make these events possible, even on a small scale.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Karen, yes, even the smaller informal events involve costs and logistics

**Luc Audrain:** what are next steps?  
… a list of 2020 conferences we want to contact?  
… which task force could have this list?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** are we talking about with devs, or with business people in publishing? Or both?  
… the ab meeting was with publishers  

**Luc Audrain:** what's interesting for Europe is what the AB did with publishers  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** if we take a step back and think of what made it interesting, maybe we can figure out how to repeat it.  
… there was interest because it was publishers and the AB, but maybe it was the questions that made it interesting  
… I see the next steps on conferences... we have started a list of conferences. We can start thinking about next year.  

### 4. TPI
{: #section4}

**Luc Audrain:** two other topics... update from W3M about TPI  

**Karen Myers:** I'm going through it fast  
… this is a work in progress  
… (shows slides)  
… TPI was a special membership category to transition IDPF members to W3C for two years  
… offered to IDPF members  
… 44 signed up  
… last fall we had a campaign to get members to continue  
… we've also sent change-of-status emails to the various groups--those terminated, those transitioning to BG, and those becoming full members  
… and we'll send something to the public-publishing list  
… (shows TPI termination list), 25 did not continue  
… we had seven convert to business group members  
… we had eight convert to full membership, and one is pending  
… with good support from japan  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* congratulations on getting the U-M Libraries as a full member!

**Karen Myers:** and we have a list of BG participants... 36 right now  
… and there are some participants who are not in good standing right now  
… and then there are ~50 w3c members engaged in the PWG etc  

**Luc Audrain:** thanks very much  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Karen can you share that deck?

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** could you share that with us?  

**Karen Myers:** I think so; I need permission from Jeff and Ralph  

**Garth Conboy:** quick question for karen, looking at the full members etc  
… is that good? how does this fit with expectations?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I was asked not to ask about money on Wednesday  
… but we need to have that conversation sometimes  
… membership is based on overall business, even though EPUB and audio are a small part of our business  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Bill Kasdorf:** the list of orgs involved in publishing—that should be more broadly communicated  
… there are lots of organizations that are participating.  

**Karen Myers:** I can update the logo slide  
… that is a great sales tool  

**Luc Audrain:** we are at the top of the hour. thanks everyone  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): pay the DAISY consortium on scheduled milestone of end of January, as development process is on-time.
