---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-23
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2019-08-23
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-23",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-08-23",
            "endDate": "2019-08-23",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "George Kerscher"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rachel Comerford"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Mateus Teixeira"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-08-23

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/23-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** George Kerscher, Luc Audrain, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Avneesh Singh, Wendy Reid, Ivan Herman, Rachel Comerford, Bill Kasdorf, Garth Conboy, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Mateus Teixeira

**Regrets:** Dave Cramer, Jeff Jaffe, Matt Garrish

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** George Kerscher, Luc Audrain

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUBCheck
{: #section1}

### 2. Status of EPUBCheck
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** We had status call with Romain. Develop is going on and imporant items going on.  
… more efforts to raise money.In September we need to launch  
… We still need about $50k.  
… Payment to DAISY at the end of this month. If no objection, we will proceed.  
… Any objections?  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to sending the $

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: pay DAISY.***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

**Luc Audrain:** Please read the document Romain prepared.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** We will prepare new communications to go out associated with fund raising for EPUBCheck.  

**Garth Conboy:** sounds good, no other comments.  

### 3. Plan for PBG calls
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** proposed to have two calls a month, one every two weeks.  
… Skip August 27  

> *Luc Audrain:* Skip 27th

> *Luc Audrain:* European/Us on September 3rd

> *Luc Audrain:* Asian/US on 17th cancelled

> *Luc Audrain:* European/Us on September 24rd

> *Luc Audrain:* Asian/US on October

**Luc Audrain:** September 3 will be EU and NA  
… Asian on September 24. and then on two week schedule.  
… We need to let Garth know so he will send the calendar invite out.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Feedback meeting schedule and the agenda does not give them time to address properly.  
… Github will be used to put topics out there and have discussions in small groups and and on github.Github.  

> *Luc Audrain:* PBG Github repo: [https://github.com/w3c/publ-bg](https://github.com/w3c/publ-bg)

**Ivan Herman:** there is the wiki as well.  

**George Kerscher:** the topics proposed in the PBG will be added to he github  
… Process will be to create a Github topic for discussion and then it will be posted to the list with a link to the Github wiki.  

### 4. Further strategy discussion.
{: #section4}

**Wendy Reid:** good things happening in the EPUB 3 CG call.  
… PBG has not had a discussion.  
… Our discussions are dependent on the various group discussions. I am concerned that we do not get the feedback from these groups.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** If we have been asking and they do not come forward with ideas, what do we do?  
… Do people want anything huge?  

**Wendy Reid:** Why does it need to be huge? What is wrong with small improvements?  
… The working group will do what the community wants us to do.  

**Garth Conboy:** It is positive that we are not being asked to do big things.  

> *George Kerscher:* If EPUB 3 is fine, then we carry on.

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1 wendyreid, garth

**Garth Conboy:** If the community decides it needs to go rec track, then fine.  
… However, if we are fine the way we are then fine too.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** The community we have is from book.  
… There are other groups that are not necessarily represented.  
… There are all kinds of things that could be done that are not represented in our group.  
… Trade is in good shape.  
… The WG is not able to get input from sectors where work could be done.  

**Avneesh Singh:** The strategy document can be improved, but we need feedback first.  
… Bill is right in getting greater feedback.  

> *George Kerscher:* There are players beyond the book world.

**Avneesh Singh:** A good task force from the BG and the WG and other groups who we can reach out to other publishing sectors.  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1 avneesh

**Avneesh Singh:** Outreach on behalf of PBG and WG.  

**Luc Audrain:** the status of the document is a question.  
… There are parking lot items and we need to discuss these items.  

**George Kerscher:** PBG and PWG would do outreach  
… their confort zone  
… LMS, STM, ...  
… Is that correct ?  

**Avneesh Singh:** The PWG that needs to gather input. Outside our comfort zone.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** How exactly will the joint taske force is different from the SC?  
… Is this a problem because we do not have a champion.  

**Avneesh Singh:** If we had a person with high level marketing and connections in many areas of the large publishing community.  
… The SC is the same people and we need to decide if the SC will take this up or a different task force.  

**Luc Audrain:** The EPUB 3 CG is having a rich conversation, and there is good outreach taking place. this CG has more than 250 people. This is a great place for input.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** The strategy document that the PBG would promote requires more discussion in the SC.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Agree with Luc that EPUB 3 CG is great. But that is about EPUB. What about complex publications that are not EPUB 3?  

**Avneesh Singh:** About EPUB 3 going to rec track, we do not need to make the decision soon.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Avneesh

**Avneesh Singh:** After the CG decides what it wants to do we could after that.  

**Wendy Reid:** agree with Avneesh.  
… Regarding the outreach to new people.  
… People have been tracking what the WP was doing, but we could do ourtreach to others.  
… Business out reach is not Wendy's area of expertise.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** The movement that the CG takes should drive what happens . The PBG can bring business requirements to the CG to include.  
… We have had difficulty with doing outreach to non members.  

### 5. Amazon
{: #section5}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We should be careful, because they have been interested, but then nothing emerges.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Will Amazon people be included in the TPAC meetings?  

**Wendy Reid:** R and W reached out. One person is going and email will go out to develop the hour long agenda item. So working on it.  

### 6. implementation challenges
{: #section6}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** A author is very interested in accessibility.  

> *George Kerscher:* T... here is a black hole where things work here, but not there.

**George Kerscher:** the index issue tested with Kindle format was not standard and revealed interesting problems  
… plenty other area to test other techniques and build best practices  
… survey of the developers on Math, will be published anonymously  
… will ask publishers about developing best practices  
… testing implementations is a great idea  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** in DAISY KB about endnote, not working in all systems  
… suggestion from DAISY to reformat the book, helped to convince people to do differently  
… but tough as not native testing for us  

**George Kerscher:** get chunks of books for testing that would be great  
… especially when it is big  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** many small pieces kills the RS but too huge doc also  
… how van we facilitate more this kind of discussion  
… anything else?  
… anything else?  

---


### 7. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): pay DAISY.