---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-23
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2019-08-23
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-23",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-08-23",
            "endDate": "2019-08-23",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Mateus Teixeira"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rachel Comerford"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-08-23

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/11/01-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Bill Kasdorf, Dave Cramer, Jeff Jaffe, Mateus Teixeira, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Garth Conboy, Rachel Comerford

**Regrets:** Avneesh Singh, Wendy Reid

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Jeff Jaffe, Ivan Herman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. How to survey the publishing landscape to determine interest in advancing EPUB
{: #section1}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** ^^ - any ideas?  

**bill:** Start with orgs that have pubs as members  
… societies, educational groups, ITPC, etc.  

**George Kerscher:** An accessible survey tool to put together the questions  
… automatically gather the information  
… spread the link broadly  

**bill:** +1 to link to survey  
… little resistance  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Need a short message and a link to the survey  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Suggest talking to societies in addition to the survey mechanism  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://github.com/w3c/publ-cg/wiki/Features-people-have-requested-for-EPUB](https://github.com/w3c/publ-cg/wiki/Features-people-have-requested-for-EPUB)

**Ivan Herman:** Rachel and Dave's roadmap document had some technical ideas  
… could have questions relate to those ideas  

**dave:** I'm wary what we would get from a survey  
… no shortage of new ideas for EPUB  
… posted a [link](https://github.com/w3c/publ-cg/wiki/Features-people-have-requested-for-EPUB) with many requests  
… would want some signal of support from reading systems  
… wishes are often scripting or CSS related  
… if reading system is not supporting - then won't help  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I like the idea of getting more contacts  
… societies; asking them to arrange conversations with their members  
… business level and technical (feature) level  
… like Dave's idea to sit down with reading systems  
… ask them about their roadmap  

**bill:** Difficult to get to the right person in org  
… most important to talk to vendors who create epubs  
… scholarly guys would say - not getting demand  
… but their vendors actually make the epubs  
… 2 types of questions  
… features requests (which may just be CSS requests)  
… business questions - like why is your sector not using epub  

**George Kerscher:** We conducted a recent survey  
… JS, Math, details element, etc.  
… did you see the results?  

**Garth Conboy:** Don't recall seeing results  

**George Kerscher:** I will send it out.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Yes, we need to bring in vendors  
… be mindful how it plays out across the industry  
… push and pull  
… vendors not doing distribution may not understand all of the requests.  
… epub check 4.2 validation has been difficult  

**Jeff Jaffe:** we talked about this for a roadmap beyond epub 3.2  
… but as we talk is more a way to reconnect with the community in general  
… I like the idea of having a broader outreach  

**bill:** Sounds like market research  
… consultants can help with that  
… but it costs money  

**George Kerscher:** I reported results of our survey  
… without attributing responses to who sent them  

**Jeff Jaffe:** next steps: brainstorming is done in a group, we are doing that  
… somebody should pick up these ideas and make a first plan for a survey and the plans  
… bring it back here or the bg and discuss it further  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can lead, but I cannot do it alone  

**dave:** I can work on the survey questions  
… not on outreach plan  

**bill:** I can help on outreach plan  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can reach out to Luc on outreach  
… I can focus on business questions  

**all:** YES  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'll schedule time to talk in the next week or so.  
… would our intention be to have this drafted by the next US BG call  
… out by EOY or beginning of year  

**bill:** Don't want to lose it in the holiday season  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** You mean the actual sending should be next year.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Holiday shutdown coming soon  
… AoB?  

**George Kerscher:** ePUB funding  
… reached out to Apple; nothing landed yet  
… optimistic  

> *Rachel Comerford:* Rachel: I pitched a few Australian organizations last night

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** After BG call, many private messages about accessibility  
… good level of interest  

**Jeff Jaffe:** : w3c has been offering courses via MIT's structure  
… next one coming up is on a11y  
… just a heads up  

### 2. Conversations with Amazon
{: #section2}

**George Kerscher:** Google, MS, Apple, and Amazon came to Daisy's board meeting  
… Joanna Hunt, Kindle, Amazon was great  
… open, honest  
… EU accessibility requirements  
… they are helping us stop EU from defining new standards; instead using the EPUB3 CG approach  
… we asked when they will natively support EPUB  
… no answer  
… but recognition of desirability  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We've also talked with Joanna/Amazon  
… open to issues of translating EPUB (accessibility) into their proprietary format  
… testing with Amazon and screen readers was pretty good  
… started to get quality issues  
… "something to do with this WCAG - thing"  
… they point to WCAG w/o realizing why  
… moving in right direction  

**bill:** Good to hear.  
… Can I talk about this publicly  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think so.  
… Good to "talk-up" the headway  

**bill:** I'm talking about the pivot to practicality  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Discussed manga with them recently  
… they seemed interested in epub  
… magic on the back-end  

**George Kerscher:** Kindle delivers a different device depending on device capabilities  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** But they are converging  

**George Kerscher:** They want a single unified format  

**Jeff Jaffe:** two follow ons  
… first I wouldn't be surprised if they would be surprised to an informal interview, she might provide some messages they want to get out there  
… also I would say that the epub survey we should think about how to approach amazon  
… we can talk to them, try to find what they think  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Would be interesting to see how Joanna reacts to an outreach  
… after all, some companies don't talk publicly  

**Jeff Jaffe:** she may not be the spokesperson, but keen to have the message out  

**bill:** Can someone make an introduction?  
… I would say: "I keep hearing great things - can we talk about it"  
… "I'm an independent, discrete, and confidential consultant"  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can introduce you.  

**George Kerscher:** And Joanna is joining our calls.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** George, Dave, and I will report progress in two weeks  

---
