---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-12-13
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2019-12-13
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-12-13",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-12-13",
            "endDate": "2019-12-13",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ralph Swick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-12-13

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2019Nov/0007.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/13-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Luc Audrain, Dave Cramer, George Kerscher, Wendy Reid, Tzviya Siegman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Ralph Swick, Ivan Herman, Avneesh Singh, Garth Conboy, Jeff Jaffe, Bill Kasdorf, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Wendy Reid, Ivan Herman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Validator @ Daisy
{: #section1}

> *Ralph Swick:* See [Luc's agenda on validator.idpf.org](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2019Dec/0000.html)

**Luc Audrain:** First item on the agenda is about the website  
… validator.idpf.org  
… we discussed it with DAISY  
… this site is hosted on a DAISY server  
… where it takes computer power, and it's not reliable  
… has to be restarted  
… Marisa handles this regularly  
… it's quite heavily used, around 4k unique IPs per month  
… 1000's of EPUBs are checked  
… even though it's a beta, it's used to validate right on the site  
… the EPUBCheck version is not the latest version  
… it was updated to 4.1.1 in January, but we are now on 4.2.2  
… it is used  
… it should not be hosted by DAISY in the long term, or called validator.idpf.org  
… should we keep this service?  
… if we don't keep it, since there is a CLI for EPUBCheck  
… we can stop it, but if we do keep it, we should improve it  
… transferred to a new host  
… since it's a legacy from the IDPF we should discuss it here  
… or with the PBG  
… that is the situation, thoughts?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I have some concerns about keeping it  
… potential legal liability of transferring pre-production files to a server for validation  
… does that put us at legal risk  
… is there something more downloadable or local?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I am not a lawyer so we could ask Wendy S, but there is a disclaimer checkbox on the website  
… or we could add that  
… when we discussed this on the EPUBCheck management call, it has 1000s of users  
… we don't have developer time to devote to that, we'd need to do more fundraising  
… we would look into the legal risk  

> *Luc Audrain:* validator.idpf.org

**Luc Audrain:** If you go to the webpage, it says this site uses EPUBCheck... (disclaimer)  
… it does mention volume should be done with the CLI  
… we could add phrasing about legal issues  
… we could add information about the CLI  
… add the link to the contribution to the fundraising  
… this site is used by people making EPUBs rarely or outside of the supply chain  
… I think it is useful  
… it could also be a way to push some information  
… advertise that the community is alive and active  
… a good way to announce to people who use it  

**Ralph Swick:** Who would be the right people to gather for discussing the required resources?  
… setting aside the legal question  

**Luc Audrain:** Romain and Marisa from DAISY  
… they're currently maintaining the system  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Avneesh as well  

**Ralph Swick:** I'm willing to take an action to work with talk with Marisa and Romain to get an estimate of the developer resources required to update the system to current epubcheck levels  

**George Kerscher:** I agree with Luc, there's some updating to do from 4.1.1 to 4.2.2, it might also be an avenue to encourage people to move to EPUB3  
… possible many using EPUB2 are using it  
… I think the server, Marisa has to kick it every now and then  
… it's not the best environment either  
… Avneesh is on, I know we've developed the Ace GUI, we're updating that soon  
… making it more accessible and robust  
… I wonder if we can include EPUBCheck into that tool  
… just an exploratory question  
… what is pagina?  

**Luc Audrain:** It's very good  

**Avneesh Singh:** Pagina I have heard good things about  
… when it encounters failures it requires restarting  

> *Luc Audrain:* pagina : [https://www.pagina.gmbh/produkte/epub-checker/](https://www.pagina.gmbh/produkte/epub-checker/)

**Avneesh Singh:** there's an impact when it goes down because it is not maintained  
… there are two things we must do, we need to improve it or let it die  
… improve the code and the infrastructure  
… move to a microservice system for the server, uses far less CPU cycles, these are the parameters for you Ralph  
… this is the minimum  
… or let it go, and replace it with a GUI  

**Luc Audrain:** I think that it's very useful  
… it's an avenue to bring messaging to users  
… technically it's not huge, but there's many things to consider  
… for us as a community, it's an important place to communicate to people  
… that aren't in the mainstream  
… smaller suppliers or producers  
… it's an opportunity to reach these people  
… it's a global consideration  
… put some warnings, but we should keep it  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think there's a middle path of letting the page turn over to something else  
… use it as a messaging board of sorts  

**Luc Audrain:** I don't know if we can decide today, but let's explore all of the solutions  
… Ralph can speak to Marisa and Romain about the technical issues and we can explore it again  

**George Kerscher:** Is there a use case for people who have an EPUB on their phones and they use this service?  
… where pagina isn't an option  

**Garth Conboy:** To George's question, possibly  
… depending on effort, I'm in the camp of upgrading to 4.2.2  
… you simply upload your EPUB and get it checked, instead of installing an app  
… having this site seems to be a feature  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I just want to point out that pagina is excellent, if we were to use them, I think we need to ask if they're able to handle that volume  
… they do contribute to EPUBCheck  

**Luc Audrain:** We would direct them to them  

**Tzviya Siegman:** We can't say they're the solution  

**Luc Audrain:** There's work to improve the API for EPUBCheck  
… we can use it to encourage people to move to EPUB3 or other things  
… if there's nothing else, next topic  
… second topic is the survey  

### 2. survey
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Liisa or Dave?  

**Dave Cramer:** I've just been trying to write questions  

> *Luc Audrain:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#)

**Dave Cramer:** comments and suggestions welcome  
… George, you're right there is not enough focus on HigherEd, I'd love input from other publishing verticals  

**Luc Audrain:** There was a question from Jeff about dividing the surveys for several destinations  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** It would be harder to manage multiple surveys  
… where would we start collecting names  
… that has not been solved yet  
… I'll start a google sheet  

**Luc Audrain:** There was an external task force that did collect a long list of names and organizations  
… we could reuse that  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** For the purposes of starting let's collate all of this  

**Bill Kasdorf:** We need to pilot it on a small scale before sending it internationally  
… the contacts we have are useful  

**Luc Audrain:** We can do this in the google doc, I will find the link  

**George Kerscher:** When you say collecting names, do you mean individuals or organizations, or both  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Both  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I just wanted to comment that we need to be broad with the distribution  
… encourage people to pass it along  
… we're not going to get enough feedback otherwise  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to tzviya, especially about encouraging pass-along

**Tzviya Siegman:** let's not get too caught up in the who  
… post it on social media etc  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** As far as Asia, I will send it out with Yoshii-san to organizations  
… APL and other industry associations  
… major publishers, Kodansha, Shueisha, etc,  
… educational and graphical publishers  
… large ebook stores  
… TDPF will cover Taiwan as well  
… that will cover most of Japan and Asia  

**Avneesh Singh:** I understand the reason for keeping the survey together, but I wonder what the user experience would be?  
… do we have a screening question in the beginning, instead of making every user answer them all  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I was persuaded by Dave's comment that most users are more than one role  
… it's difficult to segregate questions  
… instead of presenting all the questions  
… click on sections  
… make it less intimidating  
… I wanted to add to tzviya's comment on passing it along  
… the hardest part is getting to the right individuals  
… making sure it's shareable  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Couple things  
… Avneesh's idea on focusing on the specific survey case is good  
… how we do that we can figure out  
… from Daihei on translation, tuesday's call we discussed if we translated it  
… we got offers for translation to Chinese and Japanese  
… do we need to do that for other local markets  
… pilot it in English while translating  

**George Kerscher:** This looks like it is going to go out to a lot of people  
… it is an excellent opportunity to promote and market EPUB3  
… I'm not suggesting it become a marketing campaign  
… it would be good to message EPUB3 in the best light  
… the publishing standard for downloadable packaged content  
… it's not the purpose but it is the byproduct  
… in terms of how we organize the survey  
… having end-user type questions at first then make it more technical  

**Dave Cramer:** I think that's fine  
… we can use navigation and table of contents  
… so people can find what they want  
… I don't want to prevent people from seeing questions  
… many people play many different roles  
… make it easy for them to find what's important to them  

**Avneesh Singh:** I also have one concern, we want this survey to be neutral  
… it is also a way to discover if there is something beyond EPUB3  
… we might bias people just to EPUB3 if we focus on it  
… if there's something in scholarly or other verticals that lives outside of EPUB3 we should know  

**Luc Audrain:** I understand the concern, but we could put a disclaimer in the beginning on the current situation and then ask  
… what are the next steps  
… there's still some work to do on the questions  
… do we have an idea of schedule  
… when do we send?  
… how do we organize managing the answers  
… when do we consider we have enough information  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Avneesh I think there's a way we can do both  
… EPUB3 is the current standard, but we can also use the 2020 mentality to look forward, what else needs to be done  
… let's give ourselves time over the holidays to do some back and forth on the document  
… gather names and contacts  
… how do we position it  
… let's regroup on the call in January  
… my personal gut timeline is sending in early feb  
… pilot in early-mid feb  
… answers back before spring  
… we need to know what to do before meetings in spring  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Yes the AC meeting is in early May  
… AB is in Feb  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Mostly to agree on what Liisa said  
… if we have a F2F in late feb it would be good to see some feedback  
… there's an AC meeting in May  
… what about the charter of the PWG  
… it expires on July 1  
… we need to start before then  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to jeff

**Jeff Jaffe:** it would be good to have the responses by the end of March to give us 3 months to figure out our strategy  
… it's not required but incredibly helpful  

**Luc Audrain:** I don't think 2 months is enough  
… a worldwide survey needs time  
… 6 months  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* q= to comment on 6 months

**Luc Audrain:** to communicate and raise new momentum  
… there's potential for new SDKs and things  
… we would have he bulk of answers in the first month  
… we can discuss at TPAC  

**Jeff Jaffe:** The question I have is  
… what do we think is the average time to respond  
… we live in an over-surveyed world  
… most people will either do it or ignore it  
… if they do it it will be right away  
… the remainder won't  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 jeff

**Jeff Jaffe:** or will do it later  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Jeff Jaffe:** I don't think we'll get much after a month  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree  
… 6 months will change a lot  
… I might have different answers  
… we need to have a long-term view of what we hope to accomplish  
… maybe interviews with stakeholders  
… leaving the survey open for 2-3 weeks  

**Wendy Reid:** I also agree that 6 months is too long  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to interviews, and the initial survey results will be informative in doing the interviews

**Wendy Reid:** . luc brought up TPAC  
… but if there is no WG, nobody will go to TPAC  
… we cannot ask cg members to travel to Vancouver  
… if we do not make a decision soon we will not have a wg  
… after 1-2 months we can look at the results, we will get 90% of the results in the first couple of weeks  
… interviews might be a good idea once we have the survey results  
… we cannot make 6 months, it won't work  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We need to try to get as much as we can after initial distribution  
… we'll need translations and that will take time  
… we won't just use this for data but also new connections  
… interviews after we digest the data  
… I think we could have a meeting a TPAC  

**Garth Conboy:** I agree with a shorter time frame  
… I don't think we should go into this that the survey with a WG coming out of it  
… I guess my caution is not to create this survey with a WG in mind from the results  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I am not clear why the 6 months is the problem  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* can the WG go on indefinite hiatus without rechartering and then crank up again if and when appropriate?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** as long as we have the survey out, we can review the feedback as it comes in  
… we would have some directional thinking on this  
… we can do interviews with influential people  
… we tech companies, with distributors and other booksellers  
… organized to have productive results  
… it will take 5-6 months  
… we can have more detailed meetings to have a discussion at TPAC  
… the POV of business needs of ebooks  
… in the meantime, 6 months or up to TPAC, we can have a direction  
… we can have more intense discussion  

**George Kerscher:** I hear what Avneesh said about, we're not just about EPUB  
… the survey should talk about publishing in its broadest form  
… EPUB3 is the most widely used standard  
… it's going to be a big part  
… regarding TPAC  
… I look at Publishing@W3C as a domain  
… it's a major division  
… TPAC meetings in that domain seem reasonable  

**Wendy Reid:** i have mentioned that before  
… we had a bg meeting at tpac  
… the reason we had that (1) we had a local industry and (2) we had a wg meeting  
… unless we are a meeting for 2 days  
… people will not come over, it is far and expensive for europe  
… is we talk about survey and planning, it is not worth having a meeting at tpac  
… I know this survey would lead to a WG  
… we have ideas about WG style work  
… the survey will give us ideas eg on the epub /WG work  
… maybe new ideas will come up  

> *Dave Cramer:* +1 to wendyreid

**Wendy Reid:** I am ok not spinning a WG, I am not ok having a meeting at TPAC because we need 4 hours for a chat on survey results  
… we are not eh only parts of w3c  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with Wendy, this survey has morphed  
… from how we should improve EPUB to directing the publishing activity  
… if we focus just on EPUB  
… we can use it to focus the activity  

**Luc Audrain:** We are coming to the end of the hour  

### 3. f2f meeting in february
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** there's a proposal to have a F2F in February  
… the next SC call is on the 27th of December, should we do it or cancel  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to cancel

**Luc Audrain:** we will cancel it  
… the next call will be Jan 10  
… until then, happy christmas, and next PBG call is Dec 17  
… have a good day!  

---
