---
layout: minutes
date: 3 May 2019
title: Publishing Business Group Steering Commitee — 3 May 2019
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Steering Commitee — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Steering Commitee",
        "dateCreated": "3 May 2019",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Steering Commitee",
            "startDate": "3 May 2019",
            "endDate": "3 May 2019",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rachel Comerford"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Steering Commitee — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 3 May 2019

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/05/03-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Jeff Jaffe, Dave Cramer, Bill Kasdorf, Ivan Herman, Tzviya Siegman, Rachel Comerford

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Jeff Jaffe:** PWG is meeting in our fair city next week  
… is there anyone who has input for the meeting; topics they want covered?  

**Ivan Herman:** we have a session on the second day which covers the BG and the CG  

**Dave Cramer:** both CG and BG approved EPUB 3.2 publication; 50-0 in CG and 24-0 in BG  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I recall from the last call there was a bit of a rush to get this properly announced quickly, and then to get IPR committments  
… are those actions defined and underway?  
… was there an email about this?  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* wasn't the vote the call for consensus? Or are we talking about the formal publication?

**Dave Cramer:** there hasn't been an email yet about the result of the calls for consensus.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Ah, thanks

**Dave Cramer:** a formal announcement depends on having the final URLs for the publication of the spec  
… and note that EPUBCheck supporting EPUB 3.2 was released in final form a few weeks ago  

**Ivan Herman:** I can set up to redirections  

**Dave Cramer:** MattG, Ivan, and I can sort all this out next week as we will be in Cambridge  
… I'm deferring to the BG as a whole on the marketing strategy, announcements/publicity, etc.  
… And I would note that at least some people want us to collect testimonials in support of EPUB 3.2  

**Ivan Herman:** what do you mean by we? who collects them?  

**Garth Conboy:** we is the BG  
… press and endorsements does seem a BG-type responsibility to me  

**Ivan Herman:** we can assign to the BG :)  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** as far as Japan and Taiwan are concerned, I can send out a message to request testimonials from publishers, etc.  
… is there a template?  

**Ivan Herman:** On the last BG call, the same question came up  
… I put up a set of example testimonials  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will ask people. What's the timing?  

**Ivan Herman:** I don't think there's a deadline  
… having testimonials while announcing is good; others can be added later  
… that's my personal view  
… it's a BG question  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** So Luc is on vacation, and Liisa is still recovering, so I will exchange thoughts with co-chairs  
… And I will request this from east asian members  

**Jeff Jaffe:** every interaction is a possibility to improve engagement  
… I'm concerned that we have not made our value clear enough to Japanese publishers  
… we should also use that as an opportunity to remind them of ongoing work in PWG, for example,  
… and to learn from them what their priorities are  
… so we can bring those up in the appropriate group  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** OK  

**Bill Kasdorf:** if, next week in Cambridge, you get a timeline for the announcement, a deadline is useful for testimonials, as it provides a PR opportunity  

**Ivan Herman:** I agree  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I was talking to an STM group in Japan last week, with Springer, T&F, Wiley, etc.  
… this was a prominent part of my talk to them  
… so I now have relationships with those individuals  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** if its ok with you, can you give me the list of your contacts?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** they might be more responsive if they get something from me  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I could do something that's bilingual  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I don't know if the T&F person speaks Japanese  
… I can copy you on it, and identify you as co-chair  
… and they might not do the endorsing themselves  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** no problem  

**Dave Cramer:** the type of testimonial I'm most interested in is support from reading systems for ingesting EPUB 3.2 and using EPUBCheck 4.2  
… is the end of May a reasonable deadline for testimonials?  

**Ivan Herman:** that should be enough  

**Dave Cramer:** we can at least start to collect material, and the BG can help us with guidance on how to use it  

**Bill Kasdorf:** SSP is the end of may, which is not that critical as they aren't EPUB-oriented, but it also coincides with BEA  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* Book Expo --> [https://www.bookexpoamerica.com/](https://www.bookexpoamerica.com/)

**Dave Cramer:** I wonder if BEA takes up too much oxygen for anything else to get through  

> *Rachel Comerford:* Rachel has joined #pbgsc

**Dave Cramer:** CG wants to take up work on EPUB for Education again. IMS global will take the LMI part, but CG needs to figure out document structure, metadata, etc.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** in that context, I had a conversation with Rick Johnson a while ago, and he was interested in getting updated on all these groups.  
… He certainly could join the CG  
… Rachel, you were going to reach out to him? He could be the liason to IMS global  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I thought we decided that it would be best practices, and the spec part of it would be IMS  

**Bill Kasdorf:** that was my recollection  

**Dave Cramer:** we should communicate that  

**Rachel Comerford:** LTI work was moving to IMS, which it did, and is still working on it  
… but Macmillan is no longer affiliated with IMS  
… and the rest of the work was going to shift to best practices or other EPUB documentation  
… and when looking at the backlog of tickets in publ-cg  
… and when looking at the remaining EDUPUB spec  
… and see which pieces which pieces might need to be handed off to the best practices team  
… and what needs more work done  
… Dave pointed out there is some conversation to be had around vocabulary and semantics  

**Dave Cramer:** we want to give all these pieces to someone else  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* * bill spoke _to_ but not _with_ Yukari Arao and Atsuko Inoue who were attending

**Dave Cramer:** are there any other topics people wish to discuss?  
… if not, we should bring this meeting to an end.  

> *Garth Conboy:* It will be balmy 50-ish degrees on Sunday evening.

**Dave Cramer:** Ice Cream social on Sunday 7-9PM at JP Licks  

---
