---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-04-19
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2019-04-19
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-04-19

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/04/19-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Jeff Jaffe, Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Dave Cramer, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Garth Conboy

**Regrets:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Luc Audrain, Karen Myers, Tzviya Siegman, Rachel Comerford, Jun’Ichi Yoshii

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Jeff Jaffe

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Dave Cramer:** the EPUB 3 CG is voting on final approval for EPUB 3.2  
… the business group also needs to approve  

**all:** discussion of timing of voting  

**Dave Cramer:** so we send out email from BG on April 23, and voting ends April 30  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I want to make sure we reach out to Japan, and make sure they are OK with this  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will make sure that people in Japan have enough information  
… and I can report any reluctance that I hear  
… I will take care of it  

**Ivan Herman:** There was a mailing list set up in Japanese. Is that active; can we use that channel?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** yes. In addition to sending out agenda to global PBG members, I let everyone know ahead of time in Japan  
… and I send out an agenda to Japanese members, using that ML  
… and I send that to Taiwan  

**Ivan Herman:** if we have BG next Tuesday, we decide to start voting, then you can send that information out right after the meeting?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** yes  

**Ivan Herman:** that's good  

**George Kerscher:** What about IP?  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* [https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/summary/](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/summary/)

**Jeff Jaffe:** If you want IP protection, you might consider getting participants and their companies signing the FSA  
… [FSA information](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/summary/) ^^  
… but that would take time.  

**Garth Conboy:** (not as a lawyer) EPUB 3.2 inherits IP protection from 3.1 and 3.0.1  

**Dave:** Some new features  
… e.g. Makoto's voicing metadata feature  
… we need to learn by doing  

**Ivan Herman:** Need to share this on Tuesday with the BG  
… can you do that Dave, clearly?  

**Dave:** Can't guarantee clear  

**Ivan Herman:** I agree  
… George, can you talk to your lawyers?  

**Garth Conboy:** I can check.  I'm optimistic.  

**George Kerscher:** I raised it as well.  
… would hate to delay.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Also possible to get a consensus, announce on the 30th together with the checker  
… tell everyone it is final  
… but continue to get FSA's signed and formal do a final publication later with the FSA's.  

**George Kerscher:** So basically we are done on the 30th, but we restate this at a later point with the FSA's.  

**Garth Conboy:** Yes an announcement; followed by a formal publication.  

**Dave:** So procedurally are there two "final" specs?  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://www.w3.org/community/json-ld/spec/48/commitments](https://www.w3.org/community/json-ld/spec/48/commitments)

**Jeff Jaffe:** Ivan needs to take an action to report back on how that works  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Thanks, Dave, for pointing to JSON-LD.  Few commitments because it then transitioned to REC track and commitments came there  
… EPUB 3.2 is different because that has no (current) plan to transition - so this is our best and perhaps final chance to get full spec commitments  

**Ivan Herman:** Bring to the BG on Tuesday.  

**Dave:** I'll tee this up for the BG agenda  
… and also talk to folks  

---
