---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-04-05
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2019-04-05
json-ld | {
    "@context": "https://schema.org/",
    "@type": "CreativeWork",
    "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
    "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
    "dateCreated": "2019-04-05",
    "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
    "publisher": {
        "@type": "Organization",
        "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
    },
    "recordedAt": {
        "@type": "Event",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "startDate": "2019-04-05",
        "endDate": "2019-04-05",
        "attendee": [
            {
                "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                "roleName": "chair",
                "attendee": [
                    {
                        "@type": "Person",
                        "name": "Luc Audrain"
                    }
                ]
            },
            {
                "@type": "Role",
                "roleName": "scribe",
                "attendee": [
                    {
                        "@type": "Person",
                        "name": "Garth Conboy"
                    }
                ]
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Ivan Herman"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "George Kerscher"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Wendy Reid"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Jun-ichi Yoshii"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
            },
            {
                "@type": "Person",
                "name": "Rachel Comerford"
            }
        ]
    }
}
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-04-05

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2019Apr/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/04/05-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Luc Audrain, George Kerscher, Wendy Reid, Bill Kasdorf, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Tzviya Siegman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Garth Conboy, Jeff Jaffe, Rachel Comerford

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman, Dave Cramer

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Garth Conboy

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Luc Audrain:* Here are various items I’ve gathered for the agenda. Please raise other issues of interest.

> *Luc Audrain:* 

> *Luc Audrain:* EPUBCheck 4.2.0 / EPUB 3.2

> *Luc Audrain:* Synchronizing communication in April

> *Luc Audrain:* PBG Draft plan at [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Uh4FE6fkHHrtCzrlxleH7NxYEuWlixZkG2zSjsaVms0/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Uh4FE6fkHHrtCzrlxleH7NxYEuWlixZkG2zSjsaVms0/edit#gid=0)

> *Luc Audrain:* 

> *Luc Audrain:* EPUB 3.2

> *Luc Audrain:* Final CG Report vote discussed yesterday in CG

> *Luc Audrain:* 

> *Luc Audrain:* AC flash talk on Publishing@W3C

> *Luc Audrain:* Any comment?

> *Luc Audrain:* 

> *Luc Audrain:* TPAC 2019

> *Luc Audrain:* PBG Thursday meeting organized by APL and Keio in preparation

> *Luc Audrain:* 9h00-12h00 is the time slot

> *Luc Audrain:* 

> *Luc Audrain:* ISO

> *Luc Audrain:* Work on EPUB Accessibility

> *Luc Audrain:* Issue raised by Italian publishers on a11y metadata in and/or outside EPUB

> *Luc Audrain:* Schema.org vs ONIX vocabulary to be harmonized

> *Luc Audrain:* 

> *Luc Audrain:* Avneesh running in the AB election.

**George Kerscher:** Avneesh running for AB election  
… will prepare background document.  Be nice if we all voted for him.  :-)  
… Nomination period to end of month, with election in May.  

> *Luc Audrain:* q,

### 1. epubcheck 4.0.2
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** Good news about PUBCheck 4.2.0 / EPUB 3.2 — RC released — no major issues thus far.  
… EPUB3 CG discussed voting for draft of EPUB 3.2  
… only slight modifications  
… to support final EPUB 3.2 epubcheck  

**Rachel Comerford:** Will be sending out vote request to CG to approve current EPUB 3.2 draft  
… Some Best Practices discussions with MDN feedback  
… Will be able start with first article soon.  

**George Kerscher:** Vote period?  

**Rachel Comerford:** Don’t seem to have it in the CG charter — perhaps go with five.  Lots of reading.  

**Luc Audrain:** Won’t be done by BG call on Tuesday.  Too short.  
… give enough time to do a good job with review  
… Draft comms schedule  

**Bill Kasdorf:** April 23rd official release date?  

**Luc Audrain:** Some BG calls will be cancelled for various reasons.  
… Plan to be announced on Tuesday call, but not vote (as CG vote won’t be complete); likely vote on 23rd BG call (assuming results of CG vote in).  
… Hopefully all done on the 23rd.  
… approve final report (note) from CG.  
… approve on call, then do an email call for consensus for five days (at least).  
… Then announce both EPUB 3.2 and epubheck 4.2 final release at same time.  
… Final message translations in process (epubcheck).  
… Then start communications process — worldwide.  
… This would be end of epubheck 4.2 milestone, and payment should be approved (the end of April).  
… Next phase (test suite cleanup and refactoring) to be launched then.  
… Golden Week, maybe cancel that Asia friendly call.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** 10 days of holidays; 30th in that range; should cancel.  

**Luc Audrain:** BG call during Pub WG F2F in Boston; likely cancel for that too.  
… Should be able to declare victory on the 23rd of April — epubheck 4.2 and EPUB 3.2  
… We’ll consider this the plan!  

### 2. AC flash talk on Publishing@W3C
{: #section2}

**Wendy Reid:** not until next week  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Speaker is well prepared; BG gave input  

**Luc Audrain:** Jeff, Tzviya, Rachel, Karen should be there  

### 3. TPAC 2019
{: #section3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Submitted application for Sept 19th PBG conference in the AM  

**Luc Audrain:** Co-chairs to flesh out content  

**George Kerscher:** Other meetings TPAC week?  

**Luc Audrain:** Only that one week.  ISO meeting week before.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Murata said he will invite ISO folks to attend on the 14th/15th for some sort sort of tour; offer to PWG/PBG folks too.  
… TPAC Monday/Tuesday PWG; Wed nothing on Publishing; Thursday PBG in the AM  

**Luc Audrain:** Kagoshima city tour with Japanese painters weekend following; Ivan might want to go too.  

> *Ivan Herman:* TPAC: ISO

**Luc Audrain:** ISO new work items: 3.0.1 EPUB to move to TS, ebook DRM based on LCP, EPUB A11Y.  
… Work started.  
… Lots of international participation (the “I” in ISO).  
… Revise EPUB Accessibility 1.0  
… Some wording modifications & A11Y metadata — needs to be communicated to vendors.  
… Use case where metadata sent before publication file (e.g., pre-orders).  
… Need A11Y metadata there too.  
… Other non-ONIX metadata languages.  
… A11Y metadata in EPUB file.  

**George Kerscher:** Yes, correct.  
… Matt was there as well as George; Matt will be editor of Spec.  
… No substantive changes to spec.  
… MUSTs became SHALLs, per ISO language.  
… Kept requirement for A11Y metadata in EPUB, though ONIX can count.  
… “crosswalk between scheme.org and ONIX” discussions with Editeur.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to harmonizing schema.org and ONIX re a11y

**George Kerscher:** Opportunities for harmonization but without substantive changes.  

**Luc Audrain:** Roundtripping important.  Metadata should be in both inside and outside channels.  Should not be major change.  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to a11y data both inside and out

### 4. Publishing CG
{: #section4}

**Wendy Reid:** Kicked off Publishing CG — Jeff Xu and Mateus chairs.  
… Official nomination soon, with call for participation to follow.  

**Luc Audrain:** What will it do?  

**Wendy Reid:** TBD.  Call for topics will happen.  Maybe pop-up issue, pagination, workflow work-arounds.  

**Garth Conboy:** Maybe super-DOM too.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Relationship to EPUB CG and BG?  

**Wendy Reid:** Formal relationship: Pub CG will incubate Publishing technologies; if EPUB related, should be done in EPUB CG.  
… BG can feed ideas too.  
… Things that aren’t ready for WG.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Should be clear on what folks are doing there.  Need clear directions for Pub CG, before willing to assign folks to participate.  

**Wendy Reid:** Should participate and bring topics to Pub CG.  Future of Publishing.  

**George Kerscher:** Need to figure out communication methods between all these groups.  
… Avoid confusion to publishing industry.  What’s going on where?  
… Though happy about activity.  

**Luc Audrain:** Should should Jeff & Mateus become members of this chairs group (BGSC)?  

**Wendy Reid:** yes  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to the new CG chairs joining SC

**Luc Audrain:** Objections?  

**Ivan Herman:** Agree.  
… Pub CG is a technical group.  
… Discussions can happen without chartering and deadlines.  
… Efforts can move to Pub WG, CSS WG, or elsewhere.  And incubation for Publishing folks.  Don’t read too much into it.  
… Pick up tech stuff from WG that’s outside the WG charter.  
… Place to do experimentation.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Appreciate George's point re confusion.  
… it is...  
… Publishing home page might be a good plan; maybe Ivan can help with that?  
… Description of these and other related groups.  
… who’s doing what.  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* we have a psgr- [https://www.w3.org/publishing/](https://www.w3.org/publishing/) we just need to edit

**Ivan Herman:** Makes sense.  There is a /publishing page that should be updated.  
… Left page with related groups already; need to tune.  
… adding details would be a GoodThing(tm).  

**Luc Audrain:** Anything else?  
… Other items?  
… Finish early!  
… Next week AC meetings – have good ones.  

**Ivan Herman:** It’s cold there!  

**George Kerscher:** Will be in Boston next week at MIT Library conf — doing EPUB presentation.  

**Luc Audrain:** Next PBG call this coming Tuesday.  

---
