---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-06-04
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-06-04
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-06-04",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-06-04",
            "endDate": "2019-06-04",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wolfgang Schindler"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Julie Blair"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-06-04

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Jun/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/06/04-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Wendy Reid, Luc Audrain, Tzviya Siegman, Ivan Herman, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), George Kerscher, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Wolfgang Schindler, Garth Conboy, Julie Blair, Bill Kasdorf

**Regrets:** Dave Cramer, Rachel Comerford, Jeff Jaffe, Avneesh Singh

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Wendy Reid, Luc Audrain

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Luc Audrain:** Le'ts start, for the news, Avneesh has been elected to the AB, great news! Leonie Watson has also been elected, lots of accessibility advocates on the AB  

**Tzviya Siegman:** The others elected include Elika (fantasai), Charles, and Judy, all very good people  

**Luc Audrain:** On the agenda, on the topic of audiobooks  

### 1. Audiobooks
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** Wendy is taking care of contacting publishers  

**Wendy Reid:** I have been able to speak to a few European publishers as well  

**Luc Audrain:** I know French audiobook publishers, I would like to contact more  
… can we share a list?  

**Wendy Reid:** Sure!  

**Luc Audrain:** We also raised the question of tools, the spec is one thing, and publishers do not always produce their own files  
… there is a question of tooling, how will this be produced?  
… generally publishers use suppliers like studios who do the recording and production of MP3s and track lists  
… the tools should be conformant to the spec  
… it would be good to have a list of the main tools suppliers are using, and then contact those suppliers to consider producing files using the spec  
… or help them to understand/use generic tools that comply with the spec  
… we could also help explain the expected results to be conformant to the spec  
… the most prominent company is ProTools  
… does anyone have contact information for these people?  
… do they attend things like BEA or other conferences?  
… I've never met them at any bookfair  

**George Kerscher:** I spoke to people at ProTools many years ago, but it's a big software company  
… I would expect that we could initiate contact with them and explain what we are doing  
… and ask them to support the standard and provide to them technical guidance  
… also with APA in the US, once the leadership has transitioned we could write an article for their newsletter  
… both of these items for communication will help drive adoption  
… I'd like to have some documentation before speaking to ProToosl  

**Luc Audrain:** Would you have any names?  

**George Kerscher:** I have some contacts  
… I can take on the task of contacting them  
… I can do it over the next few weeks  
… Find out what they want/need  

**Luc Audrain:** I can help as much as I can  
… feel free to copy me  

**George Kerscher:** I'll take it as an action item  

**Luc Audrain:** On the APA question, we have had some issues there.  
… we are waiting for the new person in charge  
… the transition is not complete  

**Wendy Reid:** APA new director in contact  
… there were concerns in their mind  
… so reach publisher directly  
… Leslie to talk to APA again  
… APA providede a list of companies in the audiobook industry  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We shouldn't look negatively on that, our spec is not a driving need for the organization  
… it's always nice if an org is willing to take this up, but I understand the reluctance  
… we should talk to the distributors  

**Wendy Reid:** I don't have any distributor contacts  

**Luc Audrain:** Which distributors?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We need to talk to CoreSource, many publishers aren't worried as they rely on distributors to handle that part of the process  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I just want to address the point about distributors, Ingram used to be a member of the W3C, Firebrand is also problematic  
… distributors were helpful with EPUB, but we did much of our work with publishers well, it needs to come from all parts of the supply chain  
… it helps to be a distributor, but if the publisher says they want to stick with the standard, it might cut them out  
… the W3C has anti-trust policies, the concern is understandable, but we are talking about technical standards not pricing issues, we wouldn't be here if that were an issue  
… I hope we can continue working with the APA to come to an understanding  

**Bill Kasdorf:** In terms of the sensitivity of CoreSource and Firebrand, I have good relationships with both, if there is a way I can be helpful, let me know  
… to my mind, it's in the distributor's interest to eliminate chaos  
… the more standard the better, from their POV  
… I doubt they would feel threatened.  

**Luc Audrain:** I think it would be very helpful to contact them, I agree with tzviya it should come from the publishers as well  

**Wendy Reid:** that would be great Bill  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I can reach out to them before the AUP meeting  

**George Kerscher:** With CoreSource I will contact you offline and I may want to get involved, I need to talk to Benetech first  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Great  

**Luc Audrain:** I will work with Wendy and others to get more contacts, including AudioLib in France, I will build some conformant files  
… it would be interesting to see some real files  


**Luc Audrain:** there would be a question, what do we call it?  
… I will work with them to gather some files and build samples  

### 2. Future Profiles
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** What future profiles should we address for WP?  
… what could be useful? This was addressed in the Asia call last week  
… there were discussions about magazines, manga  
… this is an ongoing discussion, it will be discussed at the Digital Publishing Summit in Paris  
… EDRLab will speak on it  
… and there is a community group in the W3C looking at this as well  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** To add, last week Kadokawa's rep discussed the idea of searchable text in fixed-layout EPUB  
… if a search capability can be added to manga  
… in addition to search, the ability to look up keywords  
… a new idea to look into  
… for WP  
… Also, at the DPUB Summit, I will be speaking with the COO of MediaDo about the status of EPUB manga, almost 80% of the digital publishing market in Japan  
… 2 billion as a whole  
… 45% of the entire manga market is digital  
… we will be presenting on these facts, plus the growth of the digital book market as a whole from the adoption of EPUB  
… also exploring why e-manga has become so successful  

**Garth Conboy:** I just wanted to comment on Daihei's statement on manga being mainly FXL  
… it's usually just a collection of JPEGs with the text baked into the images  
… you could just place the text as a separate layer, it could be searchable, translatable  
… it's a big change to the market, but it's supported by the existing standards  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1 to Garth

**Luc Audrain:** BDCoMa is not just about FXL, it's more addressing authors that are already creating on the web  
… how to standardize content produced on the web outside of a standard at all  
… there's markets in places like Korea for webtoons  
… these ideas are flourishing in this area  
… good to see after the workshop last year  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1 garth :)

**Luc Audrain:** we will have to look after all of the profiles in future  
… we should keep considering new opportunities  
… we will have the PBG event in Fukuoka, we can further discuss and publicise these questions  

### 3. EPUB3 and EPUBCheck
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** We've received a testimonial from APL  
… as they're not a full member, we need to approve this testimonial?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** It's approved from last week's call  
… I was requested by W3C to get more testimonials  
… this is a good one from APL  

> *Ivan Herman:* APL testimonial: "EPUB 3 is a de facto standard in Japanese eBook industry and we welcome the sustainable evolution of EPUB 3. APL looks forward to EPUB 3.2 as the first update of EPUB 3 by W3C and we support continuous maintenance with reasonable compatibility."

> *Ivan Herman:* signed by: Shinya Takami, EPUB-WG leader, Advanced Publishing Laboratory

**Luc Audrain:** No comments on this testimonial?  
… this update means this is a clear evolution and we can forget EPUB 3.1  

**Tzviya Siegman:** It's the first from the W3C  

**Luc Audrain:** It shows the work of the W3C  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** At the W3C Publishing website, I see industrial comments from Japan, but are there any others?  
… What is the PR and communication activity happening in the US and Europe?  

**Luc Audrain:** Good question  

**Ivan Herman:** Daihei asked my question for me  
… I have 5 testimonials from Japan  
… it would be good to see other testimonials  

**Luc Audrain:** tzviya mentioned she will have one from Wiley, and I am preparing one for Hachette  
… Japan has adopted EPUB3 from scratch, the rest of the world is a bit more complicated with EPUB2  
… I think it's a good omen to see such support from Japan  

> *Ivan Herman:* b.t.w.: the new (and old) testimonials are also to be seen at: [https://www.w3.org/publishing/testimonials](https://www.w3.org/publishing/testimonials)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I didn't mean to brag, we just want to see EPUB3.2 adopted  

**George Kerscher:** I thought Rachel was collecting some as well, I sent mine to her  

**Ivan Herman:** Send it to me so I can publish it on the website  

**George Kerscher:** I'll get it to you right away  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Just a quick comment, I could probably get one from Rick at Vital Source  

**Ivan Herman:** The testimonials should come from W3C members  
… since they decided to leave, I don't think it would fly  

**Luc Audrain:** We should have a formal resolution to adopt the APL testimonial  

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** APL is done.  
… the other question I have, it's great to have testimonials from publishers, we should have some from Retailers  
… Kobo, Google, Apple, etc  
… to have both sides of the spectrum represented  

**Luc Audrain:** I have contacted Apple, I haven't heard anything  

**Garth Conboy:** I think we have written something about EPUB3, let me look into it  

**Luc Audrain:** The Digital Publishing Summit is coming up! Please join us  
… and we have an event in Fukuoka as well  

### 4. events
{: #section4}

**Luc Audrain:** we have to populate an event of 3 hours  
… and ideas for the program committee?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I started communicating with the people discussed, Yoshizawa-san and Takami-san, Yoshii-san from Kodansha  
… we have already discussed as chairs, and with Ivan  
… we would like you to join us as well  

**Ivan Herman:** I would be happy to  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** And one or two more people, like major publishers  
… Creative publishing people  
… because we are in Japan, and the focal point of progress with WP, we should look at new profiles  
… I am trying to put together people who will really contribute to discussion  
… relating to new ideas and Japan's unique publishing situation  
… some of the discussion will be in Japanese and translated  
… I'm not planning on having all of the agenda in Japanese, but some of it  
… the remainder in english  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I wanted to suggest that since new profiles are not part of formal work, we should instead focus on completed work  
… like EPUB3.2, what have we accomplished, EPUBCheck, Audiobooks, it's a good idea to focus on our accomplishments  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1 to tzviya

**Tzviya Siegman:** not as exciting as what might be up and coming, but we should be cautious about presenting work that might not get standardized  
… there's upcoming work in archiving as well, I'm reluctant to present on exploratory work  

**Luc Audrain:** I agree, we will have to start planning for the program, September is not far away  
… I do not want to overload people  
… I thought about switching the calls for PBG to instead focus on the event for now  

**Ivan Herman:** You propose not to have PBG calls instead have program calls?  

**Luc Audrain:** We discussed it with Daihei and Liisa, we wanted to have fewer calls  
… we have to cancel sometimes because of holidays and things  
… we have to get this event planned  
… we cancel some of the calls to address the program instead  

**Ivan Herman:** I am worried about that, we had good discussions today, we will break momentum if we focus on the summit instead  
… the committee is mainly Japanese people, finding a time slot for European and Japanese colleagues is a challenge  
… there is a possibility of a community group of having a F2F meeting, I was wondering if the BDCoMa group was planning a F2F  
… just an idea  

**Luc Audrain:** I will look into that  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I was just going to say I agree with Ivan, we need to continue making progress on the BG topics, we should find something else for the program calls  

**Luc Audrain:** We will find a way to organize the committee  
… I'm wondering if we could do a translation of calls  

**Tzviya Siegman:** The AB is looking into having simultaneous translation tools at TPAC, it's a possibility  

**Ivan Herman:** Will it work?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Maybe not, but we are going to try!  
… we wanted it for the AC meeting, having something is better than nothing  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I just want to confirm, I am happy to take the lead and work with Luc, and Liisa  
… I will take the responsibility to contribute to coordinating the PBG F2F meeting in september  
… Luc and I will organize together  
… and try and address some of Tzviya's questions  
… try to balance the new and the current  
… one thing I wanted to check, I am confused about the scheduling  
… of the PBG call  
… with the different times in each week  
… are you suggesting we maintain this or go back to a single time?  
… timezone wise it is impossible!  

**Luc Audrain:** We need to find one that is efficient for both Europe and Japan  
… thanks everyone, have a good day!  

---
