---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-02-26
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-02-26
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-02-26

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Feb/0029.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/02/26-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman, wendy, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Wolfgang Schindler, Ric Wright, Wendy Reid, Rachel Comerford, Tzviya Siegman, Jeff Jaffe, Garth Conboy, julie blair, Mateus Teixeira, Avneesh Singh, Jonathan Greenberg, George Kerscher, Cristina Mussinelli, Jonathan Thurston

**Regrets:** Junko Kamata, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Murata Makoto, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Dave Cramer

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Garth Conboy, Jeff Jaffe

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Garth Conboy:* scribenic: garth

> *Ivan Herman:* screibenick: garth

### 1. meeting timings
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** Updates… meeting times.  
… Alternating Europe and Asian friendly times (each every two weeks)  
… See how it goes after two months  
… decisions by email due to two calls (with overlapping agendas)  
… Folks should be sure to “present+” on IRC when on the calls.  

**Ivan Herman:** US will go to DST offset from the rest of the world.   Perhaps ignore the three weeks where we’re offset (setting meetings in Boston time)?  

> *Ric Wright:* US & Canada: Mar 10, 2019 - Daylight Saving Time Starts

> *Ric Wright:* Europe:  Mar 31, 2019 - Daylight Saving Time Starts

**Luc Audrain:** Let’s just stay the course with invites as sent.  

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1

**Tzviya Siegman:** European is probably fine, perhaps we should adjust Asian ones?  

**Avneesh Singh:** Most of Asia has no DST time.  Stick with UTC?  
… Trend is to use Boston/US time [which does match W3C trend].  

**Ivan Herman:** any group can do what it wants.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Avneesh

**Avneesh Singh:** Asia friendly time is really for East Asia friendly — not good for India, e.g..  

**Luc Audrain:** Be better for all of Asia if an hour earlier.  

**Various:** time zone chitchat.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Discuss Asian time on next Asian time meeting.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Timezone misalignment is only for a couple of calls; but for non-changing folks, it’s off for the whole summer.  

### 2. Event Calendar
{: #section2}

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* shared event calendar: [https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=NWhvMW05aTdsNHVzOXEzbWEyMGVlMmh2a2NAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ](https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=NWhvMW05aTdsNHVzOXEzbWEyMGVlMmh2a2NAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)

> *Ivan Herman:* shared event calendar iCal: [https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/5ho1m9i7l4us9q3ma20ee2hvkc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/5ho1m9i7l4us9q3ma20ee2hvkc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics)

**Luc Audrain:** Calendar ^^  
… we've put some events  
… we can add  
… we'll open to Steering Committee  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** So you can send to any chair  

**Luc Audrain:** Calendar to be maintained by chairs.  

### 3. EPUB 3.2
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** EPUB 3.2  
… Testimonials.  
… Will hunt for them in the next few weeks… synchronized with epubcheck, et al.  

**Avneesh Singh:** Do we have a PR plan?  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 - thanks so much for suggesting these testimonials tzviya!

**Luc Audrain:** Blogging, tweeting, et al — that EPUB 3.2 is validated by EPUBCheck 4.2  
… PR from W3C?  

**George Kerscher:** Press Release would be good.  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** Will have a training course for Italian publishers Assoc.  

**Luc Audrain:** It should go on the calendar.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Press Release, coordinate with Coralie Mercier — though we are trying to do fewer of them  
… PR has not be a major focus; Home Page news is effective.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Should we just start a Google Doc to add testimonials too?  

**Luc Audrain:** Folks in BG will push to their local press.  

**Avneesh Singh:** Should identify folks who are responsible for promotion in the various locales.  

**George Kerscher:** Having a Talking Points document would be good.  
… so we’re all singing from the same page (or sheet music).  

> *Luc Audrain:* [https://www.w3.org/blog/2019/02/epubcheck-4-2-beta-release-available/](https://www.w3.org/blog/2019/02/epubcheck-4-2-beta-release-available/)

**Luc Audrain:** I will take the task of writing  a blog post for W3C blog.  That could be the talking points document.  EPUB Summit in June is appropriate for this timing.  

### 4. Epubcheck 4.2 (beta version)
{: #section4}

> *Luc Audrain:* [https://www.w3.org/blog/2019/02/epubcheck-4-2-beta-release-available/](https://www.w3.org/blog/2019/02/epubcheck-4-2-beta-release-available/)

**Luc Audrain:** Beta version of EPUBCheck supporting EPUB 3.2 is out now (not quite feature complete yet).  
… Real release candidate scheduled for March.  

**Various:** Bravo!  

### 5. Pop-up content
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** Pop-up content discussion in previous calls.  
… issue in EPUB CG  

> *Luc Audrain:* [https://github.com/w3c/publ-cg/issues/80](https://github.com/w3c/publ-cg/issues/80)

> *Luc Audrain:* last call East-Asian call minutes : [https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-02-19-pbg](https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-02-19-pbg)

> *:* Really is a technical discussion.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Need to know what the problem we’re trying to solve really is.  
… Some RS’s might pop-up, but others won’t — need to expect fall-back.  
… Similar to use case of children’s picture books.  
… Liisa is drafting use-case document.  

**Luc Audrain:** BG should gather use-cases and expectations.  

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* it makes a lot of sense to me to gather use cases to understand the function of pop-ups for publishers and users

**Luc Audrain:** best practices, perhaps, such that there could be some cross-RS expectations.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** BG and CG need to work together.   Pop-ups are not part of the spec, but are built on something in the spec.  

**Garth Conboy:** not sure it’s really that broken; some pop-up, some don’t (which is  fine fallback) — no harm no foul.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Good to try to organize thinking with use-case document,.  
… Opportunity for incubation, perhaps?  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://twitter.com/JiminyPan/status/1098989566818701312](https://twitter.com/JiminyPan/status/1098989566818701312)

**Luc Audrain:** We have a standard way to express markup.  Good for BG to work with CG.  Good to see more RS’s implement the affordance.  
… Need to decide if it’s an interesting user experience (from CG thread).  

**Rachel Comerford:** Will raise incubation topic in next CG call.  

**Luc Audrain:** First need to know how it is expressed for RS’s that pop-up's work.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** RS’s could chime in with that data.  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1 to liisa — reading system docs are 'not ideal', to put it nicely

**Wendy Reid:** Some sample content would be good.  

**Various:** what kind of pop-ups — footnotes, endnotes — are we really talking?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Maybe just a list of ISBN’s would be good?  

**Ivan Herman:** Good to have examples (and such) in the github.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** BG will start with sheet to be more business-friendly.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Will eventually need non-commercial content demos.  

> *Avneesh Singh:* The old epubtest.org had a huge test suite, can it be reused for this kind of testing?

**Wendy Reid:** ISBN’s are okay — but, be better to have pared down examples.  

> *Ric Wright:* +1 to Wendy

**Ivan Herman:** Should get “interesting” samples too… RTL and vertical, et al.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** We should prioritize the types of pop-ups (e.g., footnotes could be way easier ).  

**Luc Audrain:** Need to note whether JS is required for various types of pop-ups.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Maybe hold off on prioritization until we get further in… to make sure needs are gathered.  

**Luc Audrain:** Work to do!  

### 6. collect ideas for future discussions
{: #section6}

**Luc Audrain:** What are good topics for future discussions?  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* gathering ideas at: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kq5zOMzOxvHkM8yAgoqao0M0-z5FBzqtWWoO9qLS8PM/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kq5zOMzOxvHkM8yAgoqao0M0-z5FBzqtWWoO9qLS8PM/edit?usp=sharing)

**Jeff Jaffe:** Still looking for a Publishing Champion in W3C.  

**Luc Audrain:** See above link for document to accumulate topics for future discussion.  
… Lots of EPUBs created from InDesign — A11Y could be improved.  
… How are epub:type’s used today in the market?  
… Please edit the document with other ideas.  

**Ivan Herman:** Authoring should go way beyond InDesign.  

**Luc Audrain:** Though InDesign pretty ubiquitous.  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* adding discussion of authoring tools to the list!

**Ivan Herman:** InDesign may not play same dominate role in non-Book authoring.  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 to everything ivan said

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1 to Ivan's proposal of authoring tools

> *Avneesh Singh:* Outside US, INDESIGN is very widely used. People are using it for years and find it very difficult to change.

**Luc Audrain:** More about work flows rather than authoring tools.  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1 ivan / I added another line to discussion topics spreadsheet

> *Ivan Herman:* Thanks mateus

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you!  

> *Rachel Comerford:* Focusing solely on an Adobe product feels like an endorsement of that product and workflow - I'm not comfortable with that. I hope this discussion continues.

> *Jeff Jaffe:* Thanks Luc for chairing

**Luc Audrain:** We’re done.  

---
