---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-01-29
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-01-29
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-01-29

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Jan/0020.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/01/29-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Mateus Teixeira, Dave Cramer, Tzviya Siegman, Wolfgang Schindler, Luc Audrain, Ric Wright, Karen Myers, Jeff Jaffe, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, George Kerscher, Ivan Herman, Avneesh Singh, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Julie Blair, Bill Kasdorf, Jonathan Thurston, Leslie Hulse, Cristina Mussinelli, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Julian Calderazi, Jonathan Greenberg

**Regrets:** Garth Conboy, Rachel Comerford, Wendy Reid

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Karen Myers, Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Luc Audrain:** Let's start  
… Liisa sent an agenda prepared with Daihei and me  
… resolution taken to make everyone aware  
… even if not at calls  
… we will have two parts in this call  
… we are trying to structure calls this way  
… first give updates on what is going on, then give broad discussions  

### 1. Dahei Shiohama as co-chair
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** We are happy to welcome Daihei as new co-chair of BG, please say hello  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* Dahei++

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Thank you. I am very honored to be a new co-chair  
… working with everyone and such wonderful co-chairs Liisa and Luc  
… My priority is to enhance and enrich the discussion among the whole Pub BG  
… Liisa does this is North America, Luc in Europe, and I would like to make clear the interests from Asia and Japan  
… very excited to work with all of you  

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you Daihei  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I also want to add my own personal welcome to Daihei as an official co-chair  
… and as long as Daihei mentioned Asia and Japan  
… this is a great opportunity to remind everyone that TPAC 2019 is in Japan  
… just 8 months away in September  

**Luc Audrain:** TPAC in Japan  
… thank you  

### 2. EPUB Check
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** We have good news on progress  
… DAISY Consortium is on time  
… slightly fixed  
… some new translations have been added  
… from what was published a week ago  
… version of EPUB Check inside validator.idpf.org web site  
… there are discussions [future] about what to do with this web site  
… next release about 4.2 is already in alpha  
… verifying some very early items of EPUB3.2  
… especially using the new nuHTMLchecker  
… people have been using it to check  
… development is on time  
… as figure out  
… there is a milestone for payment end of January  
… as everything is ok  
… the Pub Steering Committee is proceeding with payment  
… On the fundraising side of the aspect  
… we have pledges for half of the total that is expected  
… something like $80K is pledged  
… but we are not yet full  
… there is a very important task force to re-launch the call for fundraising  
… have more direct contact to bring this issue to more companies, publishers, distributors, even suppliers of EPUB  
… we hope all of us will do this in the future weeks to have a new table  
… as of today, just 18 companies  
… a small percentage of companies that use EPUB Checker all over the world  
… So big hope to get more money  
… that is situation today  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I want to make it clear that if we don't get the funding  
… then we might have to look at abandoning the work  
… I know some on this call are looking into it  
… any amount of contribution is appreciated  
… Rachel Comerford has been leading the fundraising effort  
… you know how important this tool is; EPUB starts and stops with this check  
… we don't want to have to stop and start a contract again with DAISY  

**Avneesh Singh:** regarding the new HTML validator  
… we are using it as a reference, but we have not integrated it  
… HTML schema  
… is what W3C is using  
… not in plan for now to build EPUB check on it  
… we are using it as a reference to improve the internal schema which is used by EPUB Check  

**Bill Kasdorf:** regarding messaging for a new appeal  
… it would be useful to have a document or a web site  
… that was perhaps touting our success of the first phase  
… please use new EPUB check  
… and we are working on EPUB3.2  
… I am not offering to create it as I am slammed  
… but we have been planning to fire up the external coordination TF  
… and reach out to more contacts around the world  
… would be nice to have such a document from W3C  

> *Ric Wright:* +1 to Bill's idea

**Bill Kasdorf:** yes, a blog is good to promote  

**Luc Audrain:** I was thinking to write a new blog on what has been achieved until now  
… I will prepare that with Tzviya and post on the W3C blog  

> *Karen Myers:* Bill-Kasdorf: thank you

> *Jun-ichi Yoshii:* preswent+

**Luc Audrain:** no more comment?  
… thank you  

### 3. EPUB Rec Track Resolution
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We have officially resolved to NOT pick up Rec Track for EPUB3.2  
… we resolved this and work continues in EPUBCG  
… bug reporting takes more time  
… need people to commit resources  
… and Pub BG will pick up discussion in Q4, and at TPAC time frame [Sept]  

### 4. End of TPI program
{: #section4}

**Luc Audrain:** Karen, would you take next topics on TPI transition  
… we saw you sent mails  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* scribenick; jeff

**Karen Myers:** this week, it's been two years since the combination and the TPI offer  
… this thursday, the special membership category comes to the end  
… we've spoken to all 44 organizations over the last few months  
… we have several who became members, and several who joined the BG  
… but quite a few will not be continuing at all  
… and those folks will be dropped from the BG  
… they can subscribe to the emails, but not participate in the calls  
… the same for PWG.  
… they can follow the work on the mailing list.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Karen, when you say people can follow the work  

**Karen Myers:** they can read what's happening  
… they should be able to respond to the public mailing list  

**Luc Audrain:** they can raise objection on the ML?  

**Karen Myers:** they don't have votes  

**Luc Audrain:** there is nothing in the process on BG and CG  
… in working group any objection should be taken seriously  

**Jeff Jaffe:** WG have signed up for the IPR and commit to the technology  
… BG people can object, but can also be freely ignored  
… in WG if public objects, there is some resonance  
… but not with BG; they can contribute but objections can be ignored  

**Ivan Herman:** one more thing  
… the general public can also follow on the GitHub issue list for the Working Group  
… where most of the work happens  
… but they cannot be solicited for comments, etc. So following work is also possible on GitHub  

**Luc Audrain:** If someone has strong objections or opinions  
… they should pay for a membership; there is a solution to that  
… in any case  
… if a company wants to come back to the BG  
… or have a new subscription, it is possible at any time  

**Ivan Herman:** Absolutely  

**Luc Audrain:** no more comments on TPI updates?  
… thank you  

### 5. new ways of working, timezone-specific calls
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** Liisa, you wanted to introduce for us the new way we would like to work in the future  
… as we discussed on our call with Daihei  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** What we are proposing  
… is to keep the update section of our meeting short  
… and we take 2-3 topics per month  
… that we define ahead of time so people have time to prepare  
… we have two calls per month  
… same agenda  
… but allowing us to work in two different time zones  
… first Tuesday call of the month is the 12:00pm EST; 6:00pm Europe; not great Japan; and start on discussion on topic  
… then two weeks later we do 7:00pm EST, morning Japan, not great Europe  
… so people can choose which or both calls to participate  
… update discussions, report back  
… to folks from first call  
… let's say we take up a topic  
… and over the two meetings we discuss worldwide  
… see if we need to develop task forces to continue work on the topics outside of these calls  
… we think this will help with better worldwide participate  
… and that we are clear on what topics are important for different parts of the world  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to this plan

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** and simultaneously work on things that are important in different areas  
… questions?  

**George Kerscher:** I think that sounds really good  
… the email list for asynchronous communication  
… is something we can always rely on  
… to discuss different items any time  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** absolutely  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** in addition to what Liisa explained  
… we want everyone to come into the meeting and to speak out  
… and to give their input  
… whether from company, industry, global perspectives  
… in the past  
… the time friendliness was lacking  
… luckily I am based in California, so it's 9:30am, but for Japanese colleagues it's 2:30am  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* Yoshii-san ++

> *Jun-ichi Yoshii:* I always wear pajama.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** this helps to solve that  
… and in between the two meetings  
… the topics come afterwards  
… and I can communicate with Japan and other Asian countries  
… to relay information and solicit them to come to the Asia-friendly conference call  
… so with the two meetings, hope the global interest and more consensus can be built  

**Avneesh Singh:** Good to have same list of topics  
… that will help to do the job  
… also talk about it's Japan friendly, so it's 5:30am for me  
… not so good for Eastern Europe and Western Asia  
… most calls happen at this time, and I cannot do 5:30am calls  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you Avneesh, important to know  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I have been trying to coordinate one call with WG members from Asia to assess the needs  
… as Avneesh mentioned, there are a number of time zones in Asia  
… I will include Daihei on that email, and Liisa and Luc as well for that initial call  
… I definitely support this  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to the WG call and BG participation

**Tzviya Siegman:** We do have a number of members who are not in Japan  
… I will forward the email I sent out to the chairs for coordination  
… let me know if I left anyone out  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Avneesh, thank you for bringing that up  
… Luc, Daihei, we owe everyone an update on if we can find a more friendly time zone to call all of Asia  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I wanted to mention  
… the time which is currently used as the US/Europe time, noon EST  
… I wonder if we could move that up a couple of hours  
… to be barely ok for West Coast  
… better for Europe, and may still be within the working day for India  

**Luc Audrain:** Daihei, what do you think about a couple hours earlier?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** someone is going to have to suffer  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* someone always suffers where digital publishing is concerned...

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** it is very hard to find times in global time zones  
… one for US/Europe, the other for Asia friendly  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Jeff is suggesting that for the US/EU-friendly call, not the Asia-friendly time, correct?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Avneesh, we will go over that again, the India time zone difference  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* yes, Bill, but it is tough for San Diego people like Daihei

**Avneesh Singh:** the Accessibility guidelines are doing US/Europe and Europe/Asia  
… one call is 1500UTC; the other is 900UTC  
… covers everyone from London to Australia  
… this kind of model  
… as an example  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you for this information  
… as Daihei and Liisa said, we will discuss among the chairs and bring some proposals  
… Liisa explained the timing and the stuff we want to discuss on these calls  
… if no more comment, we can take next topic  

### 6. Conferences in 2019 and 2020
{: #section6}

**Luc Audrain:** we think we have to discuss earlier for how we make people aware of work in W3C  
… either unique events or partnering with existing conferences  
… the Digital Publishing Summit, being organized 25-26 June in Paris  
… is a very important conference  
… I will be involved on the program committee, and there is a lot of W3C information to share in this conference  
… that is one point  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I would know  
… we talked about this with the Publishing Steering Committee on Friday  
… we should figure out what conferences are important to us  
… and from overall W3C perspective, discuss how the work is being represented well enough  
… so people realize that it is important and how it impacts their world  
… we talked about ebookcraft, Toronto, DigPub Summit in Paris  
… we realized that a lot of conferences are about books and trade  
… and we are trying to figure out conferences for education and scholarly publishing  

**Dave Cramer:** I think we should also figure out what we are trying to accomplish  
… being at conferences is a means to an end  
… we want to communicate to people outside of the people who normally listen to us; spread the word; invite people to join us  
… we also want to have dialogue  
… to have the kinds of conversations we had last week at the AB-Pub meet-up  
… question is how we facilitate these kinds of conversations  
… conferences are one venue  
… challenges of resources, budgets, travel  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you, Dave  

**Luc Audrain:** I want to emphasize what Dave said  
… the DigPub Summit is not only what we do at W3C  
… but interesting to have different facets discussed  
… and make it aware to people  
… will be to a specific publishing audience  
… but we could also have a workshop or small group discussing technical, business issues  
… and interesting to have all that kind of stuff tested and prepared in that conference  
… and try to get some information about adoption  
… perspectives on what is going on  
… and how publishers can imagine engaging to these new standards  
… like web audio books, visual narratives  
… EDRLab is very interested and engaged with Readium  
… and the visual narrative group at W3C is important to learn about  
… and communicate more broadly  
… as Dave said, it's not the only way to communicate  
… we talked about the small group meet-up with AB  
… and see if this can be reproduced  
… there are also large conferences on education, accessibility, STEM, where we should consider to be present  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I think like you said, Dave asked a great question  
… I wanted to provide a perspective  
… My impression is that IDPF was both a spec factory but also a bit of a trade group  
… the merge into W3C  
… we maintained the spec factory, but did less on the trade group  
… for question on what we are trying to achieve  
… we want to restore that capability that IDPF had  
… when I spoke with TPIs that did not continue  
… many said they were in IDPF for the trade piece, not the spec piece  
… so what does it do?  
… it popularizes, evangelizes, builds a community  
… those are higher level goals  
… conferences are a piece of it  
… and goal is to build a community  
… especially for the EPUB family specs  

**Leslie Hulse:** I see this is a continuation of conversation about audio books conversation  
… I have concerns whether there is a broad enough community in audio that is aware of work being done  
… and if they have responded to the perceived business need  
… slightly different topic than conferences  
… but I agree with Jeff there is a gap in having that trade group forum for discussion and sharing of information  
… would make sense to have a meet-up or a webinar  
… to have a broader conversation  
… share explainers, materials put together by WG  
… concerned that you have three strong audio players participating, but four are not, and not so many publishers  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1 to LHulse

**Leslie Hulse:** I think we should pause and solicit specific feedback on this topic [audio books]  
… we should intentionally broaden the conversation  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with Leslie  
… conferences by IDPF were not so exciting  
… even meet-ups take a lot of work to do  
… I like webinars idea  
… and Leslie's suggestion to solicit feedback  
… the explainer doc in WG is a great way to do that  
… expect to have that end of week  
… maybe do a formal feedback in the BG  
… and webinars is another way  
… rather than a full-fledged conference  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** not about having one, but see which conferences are relevant to tack on conversations  
… to Leslie's point on audio, we need to take back into the Pub BG  
… help people understand what is happening  
… even more true as the TPI access separates  
… energy to participate; we need to find a better mechanism  

**Dave Cramer:** Big thumbs up to what Leslie said  
… this means there is homework for many of us  
… I need to engage with Hachette's audio publishers, Leslie with HC and Liisa with PRH  
… those who work on audio books  
… we need to try to bring them into this conversation and at least get their feedback on what's going on  

**Luc Audrain:** with EDRLab we visited the main audiobook publishers and made them aware of what's at stake  
… not sure if there is a list of audio books publishers  
… these people are outside the circles of our conversations; would be interesting to have a global list of audio book publishers  
… do a Q&A, get questions from them  

**Bill Kasdorf:** two comments  
… one is that  
… the value of a conference is not the formal conference itself, it's the fact that a whole lot of people with common interests are in same room at same time  
… main reason NY meet-up worked well last week, is concentration of trade publishers is in NYC  
… but not true for scholarly  
… SSP in May  
… STM major commercial publishers do STM Week in London  
… those orgs capitalize on the fact that folks are there  
… Coko Foundation had a one-day event in London  
… it was not an STM event, but they held it in London because many people were there  
… also comment on the value of the AB meetup in NYC [last Wed]  
… Leslie mentioned specific invite to audio books  
… makes me think about the EDUPUB Spec  
… we had an invitational meeting  
… we were at stage in development of that spec  
… we know who these people are, get them in a room and talk about this  
… it was very productive and very luminating  
… One of the main lightbulbs  
… was that they were not as interested in EPUB as a distribution spec, but more for infrastructure development  
… that kind of meeting is good to do  
… bringing these up  
… even if only invitation-only, doing it where they are already traveling for something else, you could do an evening event  
… without conflicting with the conference they are there for  

**Leslie Hulse:** a couple points  
… for audio, the org to reach out to is the Audio Publishers Association in the US; not sure if int'l  
… I am happy to host an in-person event  
… they don't have their big conference coming up now  
… figure out what works  
… maybe goes back to what happens to membership transition  
… not clear what is visible  
… what is open to general public  
… not sure what they can access  

**Luc Audrain:** good question  
… Dave answered they are public  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://github.com/w3c/wpub/blob/master/explainers/audio-explainer.md](https://github.com/w3c/wpub/blob/master/explainers/audio-explainer.md)

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://github.com/w3c/wpub/blob/master/explainers/wpub-explainer.md](https://github.com/w3c/wpub/blob/master/explainers/wpub-explainer.md)

**Ivan Herman:** Dave has answered the last question of Leslie  
… any document produced by W3C are publicly available  
… all the drafts and final specs are public  
… I think next steps are to take explicit actions  
… the community should plan to be present at the December STM week  
… I think we should actively start that now  
… as Tzviya said, organizing any kind of meeting is a lot of work  
… same for Audio Association  
… we should task ourselves  
… combining that with an invitation only event sounds like a great idea  
… but also try to organize a webinar or Q&A via some telco for those who cannot travel  
… get a 1-1.5 hour telco  
… with the audio community  
… and a discussion sounds like a good idea  
… my main message is that we have to organize this  
… we cannot be passive  

**Luc Audrain:** to summarize, we have the Digital Publishing Summit in June  
… Daihei is looking to see if we can do something with APL timed with TPAC in Japan  
… And coordinate with BillK on STM for December  
… and the audio community, and this has to be prepared  
… do we have some kind of task force for the audio community  

**Ivan Herman:** I think Tzviya said on IRC that Wendy was already in touch with the audio community  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Leslie, if I can put Wendy in touch with you, the group has not been responsive  

> *Leslie Hulse:* Audio Publisher's Association will be in NY for events on March 4 [https://www.audiopub.org/members/events](https://www.audiopub.org/members/events)

> *Karen Myers:* thank you very much for that

**Luc Audrain:** good, some kind of action in progress here  
… ok  
… we are nearly at end of the hour  
… we explored the discussions we had with Daihei and Liisa  
… next steps are to set up this new way to work every two weeks  
… and figure out a better time for Asia  
… and ask Garth to change the invitations  
… so we have invitations in our agendas  
… More comments, final comments from you, Liisa or Daihei  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think I could blog about the AB meet-up since we did not have time to talk about it  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* +1 to Liisa blog

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** ok  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* Liisa +1

**Luc Audrain:** thank you, very good idea  
… Daihei, ok for you?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** yes, ok  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you to all of you; have a good day or night; talk to you soon  

> *Karen Myers:* adjourned

---
