---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-20
title: PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F — 2019-08-20
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F — Minutes",
        "about": "PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-20",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F",
            "startDate": "2019-08-20",
            "endDate": "2019-08-20",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-08-20

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/20-bg-fukuoka-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman, Shinya Takami

**Regrets:** Murata Makoto, Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美), Jun’Ichi Yoshii

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Ivan Herman, Luc Audrain

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I have not heard any comment from pbg members  
… ie the [BG meeting agenda](https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/Misc/fukuoka_agenda_2019.pdf) may be final  

**Luc Audrain:** I have not heard any comments either  

**Ivan Herman:** me neither  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** everybody confirmed  

**Ivan Herman:** Wendy confirmed yesterday on the WG that she would be there  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Luc, as Wendy will be there, do you want Brady to be on the agenda?  

**Luc Audrain:** we wrote to Brady that he would be asked in case Wendy would not be there; I will write him  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** item (4): amongst the potential participants Samuel will not make it, right?  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, he cannot make it due to budget issues  
… I am not sure he would find a budget, we have to close this now  
… he will not be on the agenda  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the others from Japan are confirmed, and they have already registered already  
… they do it on their own budget  
… I could still ask the person from the gaming company  
… but we need invite him and we have to pay for his trip  
… we were talking on people from non-publishing  
… Naomi proposed somebody from Amazon  
… the AC rep from Amazon, Nell Waliczek  
… we have not spoken to her,  
… I looked a her [linked-in URL](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nellwaliczek/) she is outside of publishing  
… we could, as an alternative to Samuel or the gaming people, approach her  
… Naomi's other suggestion from the a Japanese broadcasting networks (NHK, Fuji, TBS)  
… according the her the Fuji person is a very interesting person talking about things outside of publishing  

**Luc Audrain:** any of these people would be interesting  
… but they are new kind of user experience and media  
… as soon as they understand they are speaking to publishing people  
… obviously the digital publishing industry, not their own crowd  
… we ask them to speak because they could bring us some interesting view  
… the way to contact them will make them think about their new innovations, usage, business cases on a specific audience  
… not searching from the start to be TV broadcaster  
… this is the only caution I would raise  
… it would be really good for us if they understand this  
… it would be really interesting  
… and open our minds  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** what I could do is to extend the invitation and having some preliminary discussion  

**Ivan Herman:** do we have to choose?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** 2 japamese people plus 2 more  

**Ivan Herman:** I agree with Luc. We had an event in France this year  
… with a keynote from the French national TV broadcaster, people coming from outside  
… talking to people in another industry; it was good  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will take care of that then  
… Takami-san, any comments on these possibilities?  

**Shinya Takami:** I think Amazon person is really good  
… I was wondering about broadcasting people if they are interested in these publishing techniques  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** they have their content and also more social media type things  
… also mixed/dual screen, combining content with interactive screens, etc  
… we could utilize these for some publishing ideas  
… they could also think about this before the event  
… all of them do video streaming services  
… online services could be of interest  
… can I contact them then? I will gather more information from Naomi about the TV people  

**Luc Audrain:** I would like to emphasize the Amazon person as a first priority  
… we are officially speaking about a11y with amazon  
… we are trying to meet with Peter Korn  
… at TPAC (if he is there)  
… there has been some meeting with Daisy consortium in the US, also on devices  
… also in Europe the president of Daisy France met the local representative of Amazon  
… there is a real contact building with amazon  
… . it would be interesting that person at the BG meeting  
… to also build a good relationship with amazon  
… you may possibly add these facts when you contact her  
… if you find this useful  
… for the TV people it is up to you!  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we have the agenda items now  
… in the agenda sheet I also provided a timetable starting at 9:00 with Murai-san's speech  
… then 9:15-9:40 on epub 3.2  
… 9:50-10:20 audiobooks  
… then coffee break  
… the 10:45 - 11:30 a11y and, finally, 11:35-12:20 the next stage  
… the coffee break should be only 15 minutes  
… otherwise we cannot really make it  
… I would like to set this time table  

**Luc Audrain:** you have managed some 5 minutes changes, it is manageable  
… the speaker must understand the time limits  
… you and I will be the time keepers  
… we will have to communicate with the speakers about remaining time  
… we will be the time keepers  

**Ivan Herman:** it is fine  

**Shinya Takami:** it is fine  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I arranged with Naomi the translation work's budget  
… one worked with me, he was originally was by a print distribution company and book licensing  
… he is fluent in English and knowledgeable about digital publishing  
… the other comes from a translation company  
… if we have these two people, one could do the english->japanese, the other can do the japanese->english  
… when necessary I will also join in to support  
… that will be covered  
… the the 400,000¥ is part of the budget, but we could cut down  
… the only person that needs budget for travel is from Daisy  
… we may be able to cut down there, too  
… I did the groundwork  
… there will be a meeting with Nina-san, Naomi-san, Yoshii-san and I to look and authorize the budget from APL  

**Ivan Herman:** when announcing, find some place to acknowledge APL's contribution  
… visually.  
… About translations, will we have earphones ?  
… or alternative with speakers?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Luc and I will give questions, after question + answer, translation will be given  

**Ivan Herman:** with presentation even short, it goes not very well  
… with slides, have the slide translated in advance, English and Japanese side by side  
… then translation concentrate on questions and answers  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** slides translated, good idea  
… questions will be prepared before and translated  

**Ivan Herman:** we should not break the presentation, as it is more difficult to follow  

**Luc Audrain:** we were not very clear to the speakers  
… we could come back to them and ask them to prepare a short presentation with 3-4 slides  
… with what you want to say, and those will be translated  
… that would help having a support in both languages on screen  
… we have to prepare the questions we want to ask as well  
… I will work on these questions this week to get them translated  
… if the speakers come with 2-3 slides with their main point, we could manage them to be translated  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we will prepare the key issues/questions  
… it is up to us!  
… any other issues we need to consider and prepare?  

> *Luc Audrain:* thank you Ivan for raising this issue

**Ivan Herman:** meeting is open to TPAC audience  
… build a page for the meeting, and an invitation  
… the more people we get from TPAC and not in Pub area, the better is  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will ask Naomi and Ivan to pull the page  

**Ivan Herman:** Alexandra may send a email to participants, to all  

**Luc Audrain:** yes !  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** good idea  
… I'll send to the list of all registered people  
… those are listed and can be contacted by Naomi or Alex  
… some sort of an invitation  
… most of things are settled, including budget and confirmation  
… I propose another meeting, September 3, same time  

**Luc Audrain:** I may not be around, but I will prepare things in advance  
… the communication can be done by you, Ivan, Naomi and Alex  
… I will look at the room on spot at the beginning of the week  
… very practical things  
… during the meeting itself we probably will take one corner or one side to the speakers and you and I  
… and we change the speakers  
… the presentations behind on the screen, maybe two screens with the translations  
… I am not sure practically  
… maybe the speakers would want to stand up  
… that should work  

**Ivan Herman:** standard is one projector, so contact Alex to have a second  
… get through the AV mail  

> *Luc Audrain:* or talk to Noami about that

**Luc Audrain:** Daihei, can you ask Naomi about that?  
… we will be fine with two screens  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I have already filed the a/v request  
… the standard set is one projector  
… I will check and ask two screens  
… I will do that  
… the same time on the 3rd, but it does not have to be on Tuesday  

**Luc Audrain:** I will be away for the whole week  
… I come back on the 8th  

**Ivan Herman:** I am ok with the 3rd  

**Shinya Takami:** me too  

---
