---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-06
title: PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F — 2019-08-06
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F — Minutes",
        "about": "PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-06",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F",
            "startDate": "2019-08-06",
            "endDate": "2019-08-06",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# PC meeting for TPAC Fukuoka PBG F2F — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-08-06

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/06-bg-fukuoka-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Shinya Takami, Luc Audrain

**Regrets:** Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美)

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. update meeting agenda
{: #section1}

#### 1.1. EPUB 3.2 session
{: #section1-1}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** no request on changes for agenda items  
… from PBG members, some reaction in short notice for today  
… some comment may come before next PC meeting 20th  
… today what is ok so far  

**Ivan Herman:** There is a high hope that Wendy would be in Japan (but not sure yet)  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let’s go for speakers  

**Luc Audrain:** avneesh has not given direct confirmation yet, but probably will be there  
… romain and dave have agreed  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** do we need to have one more person?  

**Luc Audrain:** I do not think so, we have a good representation with romain, dave, takami-san, we should be fine  

**Ivan Herman:** it’s ok for 30mn  

**Shinya Takami:** it’s ok  

**Luc Audrain:** there will be a need to divide the time among takami-san, romain, and dave  
… discuss the questions offline or online before the meeting itself  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** how are we going to conduct this discussion?  
… Luc and Daihei asking each one to talk on these items  
… or should we ask for presentation?  

**Luc Audrain:** it depends on the formalism we want to have  
… if we have informal discussions  
… preparing some questions and giving the mike to each of them  
… for 30 minutes it is not mandatory to make a presentation  
… we will not be in the configuration of a roundable, we will be in a room for 50 people with rectangle of table with chairs  
… as we have generally in meetings  
… we could place speakers at one end (for a rectangle)  
… daihei and I could prepare some questions and drive it that way  
… dave with the questions  
… romain on the check of epub3.2  
… takami-san about the adoption of epubcheck 4.2 in Japan  
… emphasizing the idea that due to business/market reasons some compromises have been done for the Japanese markets  
… this could be informal  
… this depends on how we organize the whole event  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** different from DPub in Paris  
… presentation to everybody  
… but here the room is smaller  
… Luc and I take care that some messages to be shared  

**Ivan Herman:** the whole event is shorter, then we have to do differently  
… much better for the whole event, master of ceremony asking prepared questions  
… prepared on other questions from the audience, as interactive as possible, for all sessions  

**Luc Audrain:** I agree  

**Shinya Takami:** presentation for 5 mn for the 3 and then discussion?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** MC asking questions like to Dave: how was EPUB3.2 in CG?  
… send questions earlier and ask to answer in 5mmn, an then discussion  

**Ivan Herman:** the 3rd and 4th are longer, but the first 2 points should be done like this  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** ShinyaTakami presenting form the Japanese industry  
… explanatory talks  

#### 1.2. audiobooks
{: #section1-2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** number 2: what is the Audiobooks standard and the status of it  
… fallback for Wendy?  

**Ivan Herman:** list people registered for the PBG meeting  
… we may ask Brady  

**Luc Audrain:** Garth proposed Brady  

**Ivan Herman:** Brady would be a good fallback  

**Luc Audrain:** i’ll contact Brady  

**Ivan Herman:** 2 people for this point is better  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, this session needs explanation, two people is better; Brady should be a fall-back for Wendy  
… I will write Brady explaining that until we have confirmation from Wendy he is a reserve  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I agree  

#### 1.3. Accessibility session
{: #section1-3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Makoto confirmed  
… Kawamura-san also, and Avneesh  
… 2 Japanese here, discussion in Japanese  

**Luc Audrain:** if necessary, I can cover world regulations point  

**Shinya Takami:** event in October on Accessibility on Japan$  

**Ivan Herman:** worried for the outside world, 2 people from same organization not so ok  

**Luc Audrain:** Avneesh would cover world regulation and ISO work  

**Ivan Herman:** look better if we don’t have 2 person from DAISY  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the theme is a11y so DAISY in natural, IMO they present expert view and enlighten the audience with deeper knowledge  
… DAISY Japan and DAISY global, not concern on duplication  

**Ivan Herman:** if you feel it’s ok, fine  

#### 1.4. Future needs (title has changed)
{: #section1-4}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** unique scope of discussion, brainstroming discussion with different point of view  
… business prospects from non traditional persons  
… gaming and animation  
… Samuel view for Manga and Bandes dessinées  

**Ivan Herman:** inline with you Daihei, question about which area of publishing would be represented  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Kodansha early adopter for digital publishing and Shueisha  
… manga and magazines, and Sheisha on manga, trade  
… Mizushima in charge of digital publishing  
… those 3 major publishers in Japan are doing trade publishing and magazine  
… tradintional publishing  

**Ivan Herman:** 2 more areas : education ? and scholarly publishing?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I can come up with names?  

**Ivan Herman:** scholarly publishers are on the web, and we have not a clear view of their need  

**Luc Audrain:** Daihei if you have names, it’s ok  

**Ivan Herman:** Samuel is not registered on TPAC  
… we may have persons not from W3C members  
… so we need the list of guests  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Japanese publishers say EPUB 3.2 is good enough, no idea for Web Publishing, so something to stimulate the discussion  
… Japanese market digital market is expanding, but mainly in manga  
… we originally thought for Bill. If Ivan and Luc have recommendations  
… takami will help me to point to persons  

### 2. invitations
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** invitation area: non members of W3C, we have to consider for travel and accommodation  
… in the process of considering costs, and also for translators  
… expenses counting 3 people  
… plus misc costs : 5k$ to 6k$ estimation  
… approach to APL if they could contribute to the budget  

**Ivan Herman:** to Samuel, not a W3C member, so make clear the situation  

**Luc Audrain:**   
… covering for Samuel  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** if not a W3C member, he is a guest  
… in case Samuel need some more allocation  

**Luc Audrain:** I will have news from Samuel today  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other thing?  

**Ivan Herman:** next time, we will have to publicize  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** draft message for Murai Sensei  
… thanks everybody  

---
