---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-03-26
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-03-26
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-03-26

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Mar/0029.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/03/26-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Wendy Reid, Ivan Herman, Tzviya Siegman, Luc Audrain, Rachel Comerford, Karen Myers, Dave Cramer, Bill Kasdorf, Jeff Jaffe, Jonathan Greenberg, Ric Wright, Julie Blair, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Dan Sanicola, Avneesh Singh, George Kerscher, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Regrets:** Laurent Le Meur

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Bill Kasdorf, Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Luc Audrain:** Any new members?  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Luc listed six new members; any present?

**Jonathan Greenberg:** NYU libraries happy to join and hopes to voice the concerns of academic publishing  

### 1. updates on events
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** Please send events info to the list for addition to the Events Calendar  

#### 1.1. DPUB Summit, Paris, France
{: #section1-1}

> *Luc Audrain:* [https://www.edrlab.org/events/dpub-summit-2019/](https://www.edrlab.org/events/dpub-summit-2019/)

**Luc Audrain:** DPUB Summit in Paris in June--large community from Europe and Asia  
… program is in development and looking good  
… looking for sponsors!  
… Paris is lovely in June; book hotels soon  

#### 1.2. PBG meeting at TPAC, Fukuoka, Japan
{: #section1-2}

**Luc Audrain:** PBG meeting at TPAC on Thurs Sept 19, in the morning  
… programmed by Keio and others  
… will be short; this is the only time that key people are available  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** It will be a PBG members meeting, but can involve others.  
… Schedule is based on availability of Prof. Jun Murai  

**Luc Audrain:** Send ideas for subject for discussion to the list  
… Good opportunity for Japanese issues to be discussed and for others to be aware of them  
… The chairs will be planning a specific agenda  

**Jeff Jaffe:** wondering about the scope of the meeting  
… Will a larger role for the PBG in advocacy and enlarging the group part of the scope?  

**Luc Audrain:** Yes, this will be a good opportunity for that high-level discussion.  
… we really need to be talking about the vision for the PBG  

### 2. EPUBCheck 4.2.0 moving ahead and is on time
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Available now and tests EPUB 3.2  
… We really need testing on a broad range of files.  
… Kobo and others are testing; we're looking for feedback asap.  
… We hope to release the final version in mid-April.  
… Please check with your vendors and partners to test EPUBCheck 4.2. We need the whole community involved to make sure it's working well.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** The request went out to all members of the external coordination task force  
… I have heard back from Daihei  
… who is doing excellent work in Japan  
… and I as a member of TF  
… have other organizations I reached out to  
… Idealliance is going to send word out  
… David Steinhard got back to me  
… NISO going to put in their newsletter  
… those are some communities adjacent to our core users, but people who are interested in EPUB  

**Luc Audrain:** We are postponing the final release of EPUB 3.2 until this testing is complete  
… So far we are hearing good news about the initial testing.  

> *Karen Myers:* Bill_Kasdorf: The comments above were about fundraising

**Luc Audrain:** Please reach out to candidates to contribute to the fundraising!  

**Avneesh Singh:** EPUB 3.2 release will require some preparation from the PBG before the mid-April release  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to testing the release candidate

**Dave Cramer:** I want to stress the importance of testing the release candidate. I found EPUB 2s in our backlist with lots of problems.  
… Please test your company's files so you don't run into problems.  

**Luc Audrain:** We want people to move to EPUB 3 so it's good news that the problems are mainly with EPUB 2s!  
… Content in 3.2 is much better aligned with the Web in general.  

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://github.com/wareid/EPUB3-tests/tree/master/EPUBCheck%20Testing%20Tools](https://github.com/wareid/EPUB3-tests/tree/master/EPUBCheck%20Testing%20Tools)

**Wendy Reid:** I created a [tool for EPUBCheck testing](https://github.com/wareid/EPUB3-tests/tree/master/EPUBCheck%20Testing%20Tools). It's a simple script that will test a whole folder full of files. Here's the link.  
… Handy if you want to test a lot of files at one time.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Can we share the link?  

> *Julie Blair:* +1 wendy - thank you

**Wendy Reid:** Sure!  

### 3. Synchronizing communication about EPUB 3.2 and EPUBCheck 4.2.
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** What about testimonials?  

**Dave Cramer:** Two parts. Testimonials are mainly a communication and marketing thing.  
… My first concern is to get commitments from distributors and retailers to accept EPUB 3.2 and use EPUBCheck 4.2.  
… We need to make sure we're actually able to use these.  
… That's not the same thing as marketing language for a testimonial; it's an actual commitment.  

**Ivan Herman:** Agreed that this is very important. Do we have contacts with all the main distributors to get them to speak up?  
… This is a much smaller number than the number of publishers.  
… I don't have the contacts but PBG members probably do.  

**Luc Audrain:** Of course there are some retailers as members of the PBG.  

**Ivan Herman:** Even if we can't get a commitment, which may be hard to get, positive comments are still valuable from them.  

**Luc Audrain:** Remember 3.0.1 is still relevant.  

**George Kerscher:** What would we ideally want a distributor to do? Incorporate the checker into their ingestion and send back nonconforming titles?  
… What level of warning would be appropriate?  

**Dave Cramer:** We're not really asking them to change anything other than employing EPUBCheck 4.2.  
… Most publishers will reject EPUBs that throw errors. Some are more tolerant than others.  
… We're not asking them to change their policies, just to be up to date.  
… One of the motivations with 3.2 was the problems around deprecations  

**Luc Audrain:** The fact that 4.2 is stable, doesn't crash, doesn't report problematic results, is important. We need to be sure it works well!  
… We had real professionals doing the development; but it's a big complex piece of software, so it has to be tested.  
… That's why it has to be tested against a large number of files. We need to smoke out problems that only occur on some files.  

**George Kerscher:** It should be run everywhere there's a handoff in the supply chain  

**Luc Audrain:** It's not production software.  

**Ric Wright:** I understand that Apple is using a very old version. Is there any initiative to approach them specifically to update?  

**Luc Audrain:** I recall this being discussed in the recent Steering Committee meeting  

**Luc Audrain:** Tzviya, we don't hear you, please put comments in the IRC  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** It was me; it was anecdotal; I have no real information;  

**Luc Audrain:** Tzviya points out that a11y metadata is not being rejected by Apple  

> *Karen Myers:* [https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Member/Testimonial/](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Member/Testimonial/)

**Karen Myers:** Back to testimonials. We're suggesting that we create a page similar to the one I just put in a link for.  
… Then create a way to rotate the testimonials on the publishing landing page.  

> *Karen Myers:* [https://www.w3.org/publishing/](https://www.w3.org/publishing/)

**Karen Myers:** Right now there are old testimonials there.  
… I will check with Coralie to set up an easy workflow. Who in the PBG?  

**Luc Audrain:** Let's discuss offline  

**Ivan Herman:** The testimonial opportunity is open to all W3C members, not just PBG members  

### 4. Pop-Ups
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I haven't had a chance to make much progress. Will do for next call.  

### 5. Future discussion topics
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** We have started a spreadsheet to collect topic suggestions  
… This is high level, business oriented, not technical.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* link to the spreadsheet: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kq5zOMzOxvHkM8yAgoqao0M0-z5FBzqtWWoO9qLS8PM/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kq5zOMzOxvHkM8yAgoqao0M0-z5FBzqtWWoO9qLS8PM/edit#gid=0)

**Luc Audrain:** Please go to the spreadsheet and let us know if these are of interest, and any other ideas you'd like to add.  
… One example from the sheet: Getting from EPUB 2 to EPUB 3 is still a huge challenge.  
… How would a reader be aware of the existence of an updated file? This is another big issue.  
… We hope backlist will be upgraded, not just frontlist going to 3.2.  
… No need for new ISBN, it's not a new edition, it's just a technical update of the product.  
… How do we let readers know that a new version is available?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** What's the process for adding to the spreadsheet? Can anybody edit it or do suggestions have to be vetted?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** More is better. Everybody should put ideas there. Then we'll sort out priorities.  
… Also put your name and +1 on existing suggestions you agree with.  

**Dave Cramer:** Or -1  

**Luc Audrain:** Some of these may be relevant for the PBG meeting at TPAC.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Comment on Asian call about epubtype from Makoto. He intended to join this call to discuss it.  
… Any comments on this, please let us know.  

**Luc Audrain:** We should encourage Makoto to add that to the spreadsheet.  
… We can discuss that on the next call.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will coordinate with Makoto.  

**Luc Audrain:** Do we need to do a survey?  

**Dave Cramer:** There is an [open issue on epub:type](https://github.com/w3c/publ-epub-revision/issues/1241) in the CG repo. We are adding explanatory language to the spec: what it's for and what it's not for.  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://github.com/w3c/publ-epub-revision/issues/1241](https://github.com/w3c/publ-epub-revision/issues/1241)

**Luc Audrain:** It's not just a technical issue.  
… Thanks for the link to that issue.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* also another epubcheck issue: [https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues/1022](https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues/1022)

> *Tzviya Siegman:* and [https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues/986](https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues/986)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will encourage Makoto to put his comments in the issue--everybody should do that  

**Luc Audrain:** AOB?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Last Asian meeting was a good discussion. But the only US participant was Karen. We would really appreciate more US people to join in the next PBG call.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I'm at IETF this week, there will be a packaging proposal discussion.  
… Feedback welcome. The meeting is 3:00 CET / 10:00 am EDT.  

**George Kerscher:** We've started an EPUB in Higher Ed WG in the disability space in the US--35 people participating. Webinar series starting up with 11 webinars about EPUB, readers, ACE, reading systems, etc. focusing on AT. Starting April 16, targeting DSO offices (3,000+).  

**Luc Audrain:** EU copyright issues are a big deal, happening now. Also accessibility issues.  
… ISO work in a11y happening in Milan.  

---
