---
layout: minutes
date: 11 June 2019
title: Publishing Business Group telecon — 11 June 2019
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group telecon — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group telecon",
        "dateCreated": "11 June 2019",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group telecon",
            "startDate": "11 June 2019",
            "endDate": "11 June 2019",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Murata Makoto"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Junko Kamata"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jun’Ichi Yoshii"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni)"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group telecon — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 11 June 2019

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/06/11-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Murata Makoto, Dave Cramer, Junko Kamata, Jun’Ichi Yoshii, Shinya Takami, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni)

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Murata Makoto

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Murata Makoto:* Hi!

> *Murata Makoto:* Daihei welcomed everybody.

### 1. BISG Webinar.
{: #section1}

> *Murata Makoto:* Lisa explained the agenda of fhe BISG webinar.

> *Murata Makoto:* Validation demo.

> *Murata Makoto:* Recent work on audiobooks.

> *Murata Makoto:* What the business group is.

> *Murata Makoto:* Topics about A11Y

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Any suggestions are welcome.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Any suggestions from Japan?  

**Murata Makoto:** What is the purpose of this webinar?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Update to BISG.  Encourage people to join us.  

### 2. TPAC Fukuoka
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Registration is open.  The early bird price is still available.  
… From 9 to 12, September 19.  
… Will organize a PC.  

**Murata Makoto:** SC34/JWG7 in Fukuoka 1 week before.  
… A report from the JWG7 meeting would be a good topic.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** MM, may I ask you to do so?  

**Murata Makoto:** Luc and Laurent, as well.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Any other ideas?  

**Shinya Takami:** I want to request a topic.  
… epubcheck recent update has a big impact on Japanese users.  

**Murata Makoto:** seq issue?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** toc issue?  

**Shinya Takami:** Yes.  

**Dave Cramer:** Did you submit an issue to the github repository for epubcheck?  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues](https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Have you already submitted an issue? (In Japanese)  

**Shinya Takami:** There was an issue but was closed.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Could you check?  
… Any comments, everybody?  
… Kamata-san, is the error message in TOC is a really important issue?  

**Junko Kamata:** Yes.  

> *Dave Cramer:* Is this the issue? [https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues/1036](https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/issues/1036)

**Junko Kamata:** The impact is more than we expected.  
… Existing EPUB publications are really problems.  New ones can be fixed.  

> *Dave Cramer:* dauwhe: The issue was discussed by the epub 3 CG [https://www.w3.org/2019/04/11-epub3cg-minutes.html](https://www.w3.org/2019/04/11-epub3cg-minutes.html)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Please raise an issue in the github repository.  

**Dave Cramer:** Consensus of the community group: No, since it has bad impacts on navigation.  
… You can reopen an issue, probably in the EPUB github repository.  But I expect opposition.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We need more input about use cases, user requirements.  
… Input to the original issue was not clear enough.  
… We need more input.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Any other comments?  
… This is a change to EPUB 3.2.  
… The severity of this error is more than Japanese people expected.  
… Since this is a spec issue, an issue in the github for epubcheck might not work.  

**Dave Cramer:** I do not believe that this a change to EPUB 3.2.  It is a change to EPUB 3.  
… This error was looked over by earlier versions of epubcheck.  

> *Dave Cramer:* From epub 3.0.1: "The order of li elements contained within the toc nav element must match the order of the targeted elements within each targeted EPUB Content Document, and must also follow the order of Content Documents in the Rendition's spine."

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I encourage Japanese users to make further comments.  Here or github?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Navigation and occurrence order difference.  I would like to see examples.  
… Before we design a technical issue, we have to understand business issues.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Takami-san, is it possible to submit an example EPUB for demonstrating this?  
… Other than Japan, people do not see a big problem.  T-san, is it possible to provide more through info?  

**Shinya Takami:** Yes.  
… Kadokawa will work with other publishers.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** possibly email to the pbg.  
… Any other ideas?  
… for TPAC?  

### 3. Digital Publishing formats in general
{: #section3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Lisa, could you elaborate this topic?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We have to understand what is needed as a standard.  
… What is happening WITHOUT a standard?  
… Journals  
… Webtoon  
… Are they happy without a standard?  

**Dave Cramer:** Journal world has a lot of standards, including JATS.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Understand the landscape.  What is happening?  
… Would standards help?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Any comments?  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://jats.nlm.nih.gov](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** How should proceed from here?  
… We have audiobooks, but no other profiles.  
… Any profiles needed for business reasons?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Please email to the PBG about possible such profiles.  
… We will have a US Europe meeting next week.  
… But in the week after that, we will have a DPUB summit in Paris.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Next ASIA meeting will not be held the week after next.  

**Murata Makoto:** If you attend the SC34 meeting before TPAC, there will be a social event.  

> *Dave Cramer:* RRSAgent: draft minutes

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** The meeting is adjourned. Thank you everybody.  

---
