---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-04-02
title: Publishing Business Group Telco - East Asia time — 2019-04-02
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco - East Asia time — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-04-02

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Apr/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/04/02-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Wendy Reid, Karen Myers, Shinya Takami, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Ozawa Shogakukan, Murata Makoto

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Let's get started with updates  
… We welcome anyone who is new to the call  
… If you are new, please feel free to introduce yourself  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I see on irc  
… Ozawa-san, for first time I think on irc  
… are you on the Go-to-Meeting?  
… are you muted?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** so the new members, anyone from Japan  

> *Ozawa Shogakukan:* My name is Ozawa Shogakukan Inc japan

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** you can speak in Japanese and I can translate  
… just say hello and who you are  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** seems like nobody else  

**Murata Makoto:** I just posted a report; can you add to the agenda  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** under future discussion or start talking about it? We could do that  

> *Karen Myers:* Liisa; let's talk about it after the fund raising

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will call you Makoto-san after the fund raising and next steps reminder  
… Events calendar  
… on the agenda you can see the link to the Google calendar to see any publishing related events  

### 1. Events calendar
{: #section1}

> *Ozawa Shogakukan:* As it is the first time, please concentrate on browsing.

> *Shinya Takami:* Hi Ozawa-san, please join the call from [https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/gotomeetings](https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/gotomeetings)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Liisa made this, thank you, and feel free to include any events  
… anyone sees it, and if you are attending, perhaps you can arrange for coordinating meetings if you post your schedule  

### 2. Digital Publishing Summit in Paris, June 2019
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Laurent encourages everyone to attend  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [https://www.edrlab.org/events/dpub-summit-2019/](https://www.edrlab.org/events/dpub-summit-2019/)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** W3C members/participants benefit from early bird rates  
… he says that the program is still under construction  
… Luc Audrain will introduce the benefits of EPUB3  
… and a lot of discussions on Accessibility  
… Ori Idan will talk about Internationalization  
… and a talk about the achievements of the Pub WG  
… and you, Daihei and @ will give manga updates  
… New EU directives impacting publishing  
… voice access to audio and much more  
… also looking for sponsors  
… and weather in Paris in June will be sunny :)  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any questions or comments  
… will Ori Idan cover i18n issues restricted to Israel, or will he cover Asian topics  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** that is a good questions; we should reach out  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we'll look for his response tomorrow as it's midnight in Paris  
… and share that later  

> *Karen Myers:* @: Who is going to speak about Accessibility?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Liisa?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Avneesh Singh and the new president of DAISY  

**Murata Makoto:** just want to make sure the issues are covered  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** as does Luc  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** anything else on Digital Publishing Summit in Paris  

### 3. TPAC 2019
{: #section3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Publishing BG F2F meeting  
… and the community meeting  
… From 9:00am to 12:00pm  
… Agenda is not set yet  
… I submitted the schedule to W3C events team  
… we will discuss topics and presentations at the PubBG meeting in September  

**Murata Makoto:** Do you plan some event before the TPAC meeting?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** that is not planned yet  
… the reason for choosing the morning of Thursday 19 Sept is because Murai-sensei from Keio is able to attend at this time  
… the 14-15 were excluded from the meeting option  

**Murata Makoto:** I wonder if ISO arranges a sight seeing event so everyone can enjoy Fukuoka  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 site seeing

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** related to W3C Publishing, no reason not to have meetings, but officially we will coordinate the PubBG meeting on Thursday  

> *Karen Myers:* Makoto-san and the Pub WG will meet on the 12-13

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** and after that I plan to have a social event  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** would you please share the information as to location to the PubBG  
… and we can consider attending  

**Murata Makoto:** this is my idea, but I'm sure it will be supported by Japanese Information Processing Society  
… I will keep you informed  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** And you will inform APL  
… and we can coordinate so everyone knows  

**Murata Makoto:** the budget is a bit a limited, so counting on some sponsorship from Japanese publishers  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** you can bring up at APL  
… I can approach @  

**Murata Makoto:** That's great  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** anybody else on TPAC PBG meeting?  
… comment or questions?  

### 4. EPUBCheck4.2 release candidate
{: #section4}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** it has been posted  
… and we are soliciting publishing people, distributors, vendors, stores, to test the files  
… and report to EPUBCheck group  
… so that any kind of issues are adopted or fixed  
… things like that  
… anything to add, Liisa?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** no, I think you got it  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Any questions on EPUBCheck release candidate?  
… other thing I could tell you  
… this period will be available through mid-June  
… then EPUB3.2 testimonial  
… and EPUBCheck4.2 should be announced publicly as official versions  
… the announcement will take place some time during the 15 April to end of April  
… that is the plan  
… questions or comments?  

**Shinya Takami:** EPUBCheck4.2  
… we have found a problem with our EPUB files  
… the EPUB specification  
… for example, how manga content  
… has complicated order of navigation documents  
… TOC order  
… disabled...complicated order of POC  
… some manga content has paper book  
… some not @ order  

> *Karen Myers:* [Daihei to translate Takami-san]

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** take advantage of this Japan friendly time  
… asking everyone to try to comment  
… Takami-san explained that there was a problem when he tested the Kadokawa manga files  
… some are popular and widely distributed in Japan  
… if my translation is not correct  
… let me know  
… My understanding there was some difference in specification and file was made upon files already created based upon practices exercized in japan  
… which is different from the specification  
… in areas like the table of contents  

> *Karen Myers:* [TOC]

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Did I explain this?  
… is that ok?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I asked Takami-san if he already reported to EPUBCheck4.2 into Github  

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://github.com/w3c/EPUBCheck/issues](https://github.com/w3c/EPUBCheck/issues) report here :)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** he has not done it but he will report it so it will be reported for everybody  
… same kind of practice  
… might have been done into ebook publications in Japan already  
… and also given the audio reading systems in japan did not create difficulties  
… for manga EPUB files  
… no complaints  
… but now with the new EPUBChecker  
… which is loyal to EPUB3.2  
… error message; if not correct version being reported  
… this is an issue that Japanese publishing companies could face  

> *Karen Myers:* ..and we have to find a solution

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We ran into a similar problem at PRH  
… and found a fairly simple way to solve  
… it does not matter it's not in same order as long as nav and manifest are in the same order  
… we move the dedication of book to back of book  
… so page 4 in print is after page 256  
… it's a matter of making sure we were matching the order  
… that said  
… we are not immediately going to fix every back list book  
… we will fix as we redistribute them  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** got it  

**Murata Makoto:** I have a question for Liisa  
… when new store opens, will they find problems and come back to you?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** sometimes, yes  
… part of new store negotiation is that there may be some issues; figure out how 'perfect' would happen  

**Murata Makoto:** publishers are not willing to fix incorrect publications?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I have 80,000 and cannot fix everyone of them in time for EPUB4.2 to come up  

> *Karen Myers:* Makoto-san: you have same problem with fixing errors

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We will fix them as they come up with the new versions, and what version we last validated with  

> *Karen Myers:* Makoto-san: thanks

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** everybody has Liisa's comment and explanation  
… PRH is another case how she will deal  
… may help other publications  

> *Karen Myers:* @: Maybe manga...not easy to move the pages backward

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I would not recommend moving pages, just the nav, @ and manifest  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** once you upload your situation into Github people will react to it and we will see how it goes  

**Wendy Reid:** I would like to second Daihei to please upload that situation to Github  
… I know in my testing I have seen some new errors in the books  
… as a book seller  
… we probably won't reject books for not meeting EPUBCHeck4.2; there will be grace period  
… we see more warnings which we will look out for  
… content has not changed, but we are validating on a stricter standard  
… if it rendered to 4.2 it will likely do so after wards  

**Karen Myers:** We are ready to take testimonials  
… Please send testimonials to Ivan and me by email and cc the Publishing BG list  
… we will then upload them and they will rotate on the publishing landing page and also be on a single page aggregated  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other questions on the EPUB4.2 release?  

### 5. EPUBCheck Fundraising
{: #section5}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** So far two thirds of the targeted amount has been raised thanks to everyone  
… and maintenance release  
… for April 2019  
… funding next phase, clean-up documentation and media overlay support  
… this is scheduled to come out in Nov/Dec this year  
… and phase 3 EPUBCheck prototype based on new HTML integration  
… and phase 4 is maintenance in 2020  
… up through phase four we would like to secure the targeted amount  
… about $80K has been raised  
… remainder is about $50K  
… now that extra coordination task force  
… under Bill Kasdorf, Joshi-san and myself are reaching out to worldwide publishing organizations to say that we still need more fund raising  
… and appreciate your help to support EPUBCheck  
… and comments or questions?  
… Ok  
… move on to EPUB3.2 and EPUB4.2 announcement  
… Makoto-san would you please explain the outcome of the ISO meeting?  

**Murata Makoto:** Does everybody have a copy of the ISO IC report?  

> *Karen Myers:* [can someone please drop in?]

**Murata Makoto:** I will send to archive and keep informed  
… two topics: EPUB Accessibility and DRM  
… first EPUB Accessibility  
… we are going to create an international standard based on an old IDPF work  
… Matt Garrish will work on this by June  
… and hopefully draft new standard after the Fukuoka meeting  
… and then we will have a draft international standard  
… if all goes well we hope to have standard by June of next year  
… issue is that EPUB Accessibility designed by DAISY is based on embedded meta data  
… Italian publishers prefer detached, like ONYX rather than embedded in the EPUB publications  
… there is a difference of opinions and we will continue discussions  
… the second topic is DRM  
… we have changed the title from DRM to specification of DRM in digital publications  
… it now includes PDF  
… we were asked by W3C Team not to use EPUB DRM  
… hence we have this new title  
… three parts: overview, LCP, device information  
… parts one and two will probably be finished if lucky by end of this year and be published as specifications  
… schedule for part three is not clear; clearer by September  
… in Fukuoka meeting  
… This is the general outline  
… Any questions?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Thank you  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I wanted to ask  
… is there any consideration for allowing for the metadata in the package and in the metadata in ONYX?  

> *Karen Myers:* Makoto-san: yes

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** ONYX and embedded EPUB meta data is different  
… not clear  
… if every Accessible meta data can be captured by ONYX  
… Francis Cave is chair  
… still gap between ONYX and EPUB Accessibility meta data is not clear yet  
… this is all I can say now  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** is that all right?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes, thank you for the clarification  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Makoto-san, anything else you would like to explain?  

**Murata Makoto:** If you are interested, please join  
… W3C members are welcome  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other comments or questions, then we will move on  

### 6. EPUBCheck Announcement Plan
{: #section6}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Karen explained about the testimonial process  
… and announcement for the final report  
… and launch call for consensus by mail within a week after that  
… announce the availability of EPUBCheck4.2  
… we will do launch communications widely  
… and do a PR job  

> *Murata Makoto:* When is the target date?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Karen add anything?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I would note that it's really important to finish the EPUB3.2 testing  
… and report any issues  
… there is fine tuning as they review EPUBCheck and make sure the spec reflects minor changes being made  
… so please do report your testing  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** thank you, Liisa  

**Murata Makoto:** what is the date?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** emails will be sent for consensus  
… by the end of April is the timing of the announcement  

**Murata Makoto:** so EPUBCheck has to be finalized by the end of this month  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** discussion was to try testing and reporting by middle of April  
… to stay on this schedule  
… am I correct?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Yes, it sounds like there have been some reported issues  
… things have slowed down in the last week or so  
… and it's getting fairly stable  
… so do report before 15 April; very important  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any more comment or issues?  
… move on to future discussion topics based on the Google doc  

### 7. Future Discussion Topics
{: #section7}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** and next Asia friendly call  
… a proposal  
… everyone was asking if you could include your comment into the Google doc  
… and I sent an email to you  
… would you kindly explain your idea again?  
… or put it up to the Google doc for comment  

**Murata Makoto:** I made a comment already  
… should we use the class attribute or the @ attribute or the EPUB attribute? Which of the three should we adopt  
… EPUB type  
… which attribute should we use  
… Tzviya mentioned that industry is migrating from EPUB type to @ attribute  
… Ruby for every character or different characters  
… roll, class, EPUB Type?  
… does this PubBG have a position  
… or what are other publishers doing right now?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Thank you  
… any response?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We had a conversation at ebookcraft recently  
… about the fact that ARIA roles are worse than no ARIA rolls  
… my PRH team decided to go ARIA crazy  
… we are having all kinds of accessibility issues because we went overboard  
… you made a really good point  
… we should figure out what best practices are on how to adopt this stuff  

**Murata Makoto:** I am interested in what you face in role attribute  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I will write it up and send it to you  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** you can see the comments on the Google doc  
… please make a comment in the Google doc  
… any other comments on future topics, or future agenda list?  
… there are several more added  

> *Karen Myers:* @: It is not clear to me

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** future discussion topics  
… and there are several additional ones included recently in the Google do  
… integrating with the web community  
… adoption of EPUB3.2  
… these items are listed in the Google doc  
… and I am asking if anyone wants to talk about the topics listed in the Google doc?  

> *Karen Myers:* @: Submit testimonials; this is important for the public

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** which publishers will do that?  
… who is going to send testimonials?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** PRH does not usually do testimonials about technology  
… but I am trying to get approval for a testimonial that we intend to adopt EPUB3.2 and use EPUBCHeck 4.2  

> *Karen Myers:* Takami-san: I think we will submit a testimonial

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we will go through the process if we could  

> *Karen Myers:* Takami-san: if I want support and we are biggest users of EPUB3.2

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** if not support, what is the point  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** my plan is to approach to APL  
… EPBJ  
… and members  
… APS  
… to check with them if they could send out testimonials  
… and the other industry organizations  
… and digital publishing companies and other organizations ask their support to provide testimonials  
… that is my job as one of the co-chairs  
… and I will contact Taiwanese organizations to consider sending in testimonials  
… and check with other publishers in Taiwan  
… I don't have contacts in China  
… but if I find, I will contact them and go through same process  

**Murata Makoto:** who can send testimonials?  

**Karen Myers:** we will prioritize Pub BG and W3C members but welcome community testimonials as well  

> *Wendy Reid:* Daihei: Any other questions, comments? Let's call the meeting for the night

> *Wendy Reid:* ... Thanks everyone

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** in future, please put q+ to ask questions in future  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* Karen, thanks for scribing!

---
