---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-12-17
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-12-17
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-12-17",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-12-17",
            "endDate": "2019-12-17",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Thurston"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Stroup"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Greenberg"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-12-17

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Dec/0006.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/17-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Dave Cramer, Bill Kasdorf, Jeff Jaffe, Avneesh Singh, Garth Conboy, David Stroup, Jonathan Greenberg

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Luc Audrain, Liisa McCloy-Kelley

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUBcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** haven't raised enough, have received 3 pledges  
… from Firebrand and two small suppliers in France  
… personal mails have some success  
… have to pay DAISY in end of Feb and hope to reach the amount about $30K  
… need to keep up momentum to raise funds  
… hope people will contribute with new 2020 budgets  
… we all need to keep spreading the word  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** has reached out to industry organizations in Japan  
… some have put money in already, asking to have members consider amounts for companies  
… no favorable response yet  

**Luc Audrain:** no news from Apple yet  

### 2. validator.idpf.org website
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** site was setup a long time ago, beta version  
… it is really used, nearly 4000 unique IPs per month  
… thousands of EPUBs are checked  
… hosted on the DAISY server and is not reliable, needs maintenance  
… don't know who uses it and why  
… had discussions on the steering committee and think it is a place used for convenience  
… maybe people are not in our main conversation, may be a way to message about the next versions  
… only running 4.1.1 EPUBcheck  
… it is not running 4.2 EPUBcheck  
… DAISY thinks it is not a big effort to update to 4.2.2.  
… do we know who uses it and why?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** maybe we can put it in the survey to find out where people validate  

**Garth Conboy:** would like to see it working and think that a disclaimer about unencryption on the site is good  

**Luc Audrain:** average 4000 unique IPs per month and 10s of thousands checked  
… needs to be hosted somewhere  

**Jeff Jaffe:** related point, is there a way to include them in the survey?  

**Avneesh Singh:** it is not a server problem, the code needs refactoring  
… cpu cycles are quite high and needs to be refactored and more efficient  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** maybe add language to point to fundraising and a disclaimer is a good start  

**Luc Audrain:** will followup with Romain about that  

### 3. survey
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** survey being worked on, draft circulated  

**Avneesh Singh:** needs an objective statement  

**dave:** objective of the survey is to find out what we don't know  
… same group of people working for 20 years  
… we are clear on our problems, but we want to reach outside the group  
… is what we think the same as others  
… that is broad because we want to hear out there what people want  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** will try to write an intro statement and think that we have to be mindful that people don't always know what they want  

**Luc Audrain:** we don't know why people don't go to digital and there is a lot to be fueled by the survey and take 2020 as a re-launch for a new era  

**Avneesh Singh:** good idea to find out what we don't know, need fresh ideas from outside  
… some cautions  
… are they people who only use EPUB and how do we get to people beyond that  
… want broad coverage, but there will be human labor involved to interpret and want to make the survey efficient for analysis  

**Bill Kasdorf:** casting a wide net is fundamental  
… what kind of issues popup and even one respondent with a point that resonates will be helpful  
… ambiguity about EPUB and when does it morph into web publications  
… EU might say that people just want information online  
… want publications that work online in browsers and don't want to give up on that  
… also valid to want to know what EPUB should provide  

**Jeff Jaffe:** fan of futuristic everything is online, but this particular survey may need to be firmly grounded in evolution of EPUB  
… worry if we aren't grounded we'll get nowhere  

**dave:** would appreciate anybody who reads the questions, proposes new questions, and contribute  
… may be comfortable is the scope is ebooks  
… not just EPUB  
… PDFs are still accessibility problems and understand what it would take for people to actually use EPUB  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to focusing. I wasn't advocating broadening the perspective but pointing out that we were verging that way.

**Luc Audrain:** intro to survey should explain this point  

> *Avneesh Singh:* I like Liisa'proposal of writing an introduction, defining the objective and scope

> *Bill Kasdorf:* George is not on the call but he was interested in corporate publications. Are we including those as "ebooks"?

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** launch before end of january  

**Luc Audrain:** timing is to launch in January with smaller group and expand in early Feb for some responses  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** should we add directly to the draft?  
… I will do that  

**dave:** wary of focusing on corporate publications  
… we say it is a good idea, but we don't have people driving the idea from that part of the world  
… we need to interact with them before going far down that road  

**Ivan Herman:** ebook on the one side and the European docs/corp docs on the other  
… completely different business models  
… trying to drag ourselves into a different business model may take us down the wrong path  
… tech and business is important to remember  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Channeling George again, he would probably mention the imminent "Save as EPUB" in Word. . . .

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the tools to make EPUB did not make so efficiently  
… with business doc that is an issue  
… what do they do for navigation in « Save as EPUB"  

> *Jonathan Greenberg:* As more scholarly books are being published open access, they're not being sold either. Here corporate publishing and academic publishing are perhaps moving nearer each other.

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Jonathan_Greenberg

### 4. EPUB 3.2 adoption
{: #section4}

**Luc Audrain:** probably related to EPUBcheck 4.2  
… many people have made EPUBcheck 4.2 running in production and either upstream in publishing houses or at suppliers  
… also has been adopted in distributed/sales channels, Google and Kobo are using  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* luc- we can hear you and each other

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** moving backlist epub to epubcheck 4.2.2  
… has anyone else planned for backlist?  

**Luc Audrain:** have planned to work on backlist  
… want to add accessibility features so all EPUB3 from 2016 forward are accessible, but a long list  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** almost like a launch in Japan from EPUB3  
… lately discussion with some major publishers and they feel strongly they may have to go back to make more accessible  
… concerned about cost and practical questions of where to start  
… EPUB 3.2 for new files and EPUB 3.0.1 files are compatible and looking into accessibility  
… hear from Taiwan that TDPF has been educating local publishers for EPUB 3.2, but not easy  
… no Korea and Chinese on the Asia call and we don't know the status of these markets  

### 5. Concerns about Adobe DRM and ACS
{: #section5}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** hearing that a lot of concern that Adobe not focused on their platform  
… issues with their code base, ARM Sdk  
… some are trying to find a alternative soon  
… impact on business?  

**Luc Audrain:** know there is not much work on the adobe mobile RMSDK  
… for android platform it is not possible to publish a valid adobe mobile application  
… it's time to stop working with adobe RMSDK for mobile apps  
… may be time to work with Readium and look at LCP for replacing adobe DRM  
… Luc hopes that LCP and Readium be considered as alternative  

**dave:** concerned about topic  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** discussion on that topic  
… want people to consider whether we should invite Adobe back for open discussion  

---
