---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-07-16
title: Publishing Business Group Weekly Call — 2019-07-16
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Weekly Call — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Weekly Call",
        "dateCreated": "2019-07-16",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Weekly Call",
            "startDate": "2019-07-16",
            "endDate": "2019-07-16",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Karen Myers"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rachel Comerford"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Mateus Teixeira"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "julie blair"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Weekly Call — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-07-16

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/07/16-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Bill Kasdorf, Tzviya Siegman, Karen Myers, Dave Cramer, Luc Audrain, Wendy Reid, Rachel Comerford, Garth Conboy, Avneesh Singh, Mateus Teixeira, julie blair

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Luc Audrain:** we had a few regrets for today  
… we sent out an agenda  
… a bit late, so sorry for that  
… We have information updates  

### 1. Vote in PBG about Avneesh to be member of Steering Committee
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** Lissa, you launched the vote  
… you received only +1  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes, we received only plus ones  

> *Avneesh Singh:* Thank you to all

**Luc Audrain:** So we can resolve that Avneesh is a member of the Publishing Steering Committee  

### 2. Publishing F2F meeting at TPAC
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Daihei, where are we on the agenda?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** The proposed agenda is sorted out lightly  

> *Karen Myers:* *EPUB3.2

> *Karen Myers:* * @

> *Karen Myers:* * @

> *Karen Myers:* * @

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** and gaming to be discussed in Japanese and English  
… I will send out the program committee members  
… tomorrow to ask for meeting next week  
… and then we will discuss further and report back to you  
… for logistics, I have requested from W3C, and Naomi Yoshizawa  
… to prepare for simultaneous translations from Japanese to English and English to Japanese  
… the meeting will be Thursday, 9:00am to 12:00pm; it's on track  

**Luc Audrain:** I understand there will be a PC call next week  

**Rachel Comerford:** Is the draft agenda available for the PBG SC to review and comment on?  

**Luc Audrain:** Probably not yet; we will have to work on the draft  
… but we will share once it's ready  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I was wondering on two areas of focus  
… Accessibility and Gaming  
… is this of interest to the rest of the W3C?  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/12/games-workshop/](https://www.w3.org/2018/12/games-workshop/)

**Tzviya Siegman:** especially Accessibility, very broadly of interest to W3C  
… and Gaming likely broader interest as well. There was recently a Workshop on Web Games  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** regarding Gaming  
… as it relates to Web Publications  
… might be enough of new perspectives to put into discussion  
… in Japan, some Japanese entertainment companies are providers, such as Anime  
… this is still a proposed agenda to be discussed by the PC  
… and then after we will finalize with you  
… there is interest to have non-traditional publishing people  
… that is where that is  
… I mentioned probably other people could be invited into the discussion  
… also I will ask Makoto to coordinate with Daisy Japan to participate  
… to have a global point of view  
… also Accessibility issue  
… to discuss Japanese people's interests  

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you, Daihei  

### 3. EPUB3 CG Resolution
{: #section3}

**Wendy Reid:** I have a quick question  
… about meeting in Japan  
… I hear about Gaming  
… but also wondered about the chapterization of books  
… our Rakuten colleagues say Japanese offer a service chapter by chapter  
… and you see ads  
… I think it's something quite pertinent to what we are doing; wonder if we would see something there?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** yes, this could be interesting  
… the chapter by chapter has been an established practice, especially for Manga  
… several ways to provide and review content  
… readership increased  
… with chapter reading  
… and large audiences help to secure the advertising income  
… I will share that topic with the program committee  
… Speaking of new business model on ebooks in Japan  
… there are several others outside of Manga  
… the business case, or business model  
… that we should bring into a publication discussion  
… we will discuss in PC and report back  

**Wendy Reid:** Sounds good, thank you  

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you, Daihei  
… more comments?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** If we can master that, that would be huge; not just for Manga  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you, Tzviya  
… Dave, may I ask you if you can inform us about the last EPUB3 CG meeting; the resolution to downgrade this issue for navigation from error to warning  

**Dave Cramer:** You did a good summary  
… faced with feedback, we advised EPUBCheck to change the error to a warning for when the order of links in the primary navigation file does not match the spine order  
… we don't know enough to make a change at that point  
… not completely sure how much reading systems are using the doc structure exposed in the nav file  
… plan to build some test books with nav out of order and see what impact that has on reading systems  

**Luc Audrain:** part of resolution was to work on it  
… on the question of modifying or how to modify EPUB3.2 spec for the future  
… after the test that Dave mentioned  
… I am also aware that EPUBCheck is being modified these days  
… and should be available in a new release this week  
… that brings this error to warning  
… will be settled for the Japanese market  
… it will be an infomessage  
… that clearly says it may change in the future  
… after further discussions about the specification  

**Rachel Comerford:** Just speaking about these maintenance updates  
… do we have any updates on the funding of EPUBCheck? And the current state of fundraising?  

**Luc Audrain:** We are still able to finance the current development until the end of this year  
… We had a management call with Daisy Consortium last week  
… but there is a need for an additional $51KUSD to complete the plan  
… we plan to relaunch  
… a fundraising call at the end of summer  
… like September based on clear tasks that will be accomplished in the next six months or next year, 2020  
… The tasks will be listed in a friendly document, not too technical  
… and ask for funding for the additional $50K  
… that is the plan. Anyone can contribute right now  

**Rachel Comerford:** Thank you  

**Luc Audrain:** Before we have this discussion about objectives  
… we propose to cancel the calls on 23 and 30 July  
… to have a small break for summer  
… and reconvene in August  
… I know the PubWG is also having a break  
… thank you for PubWG members being here today  

**Garth Conboy:** specifically, what meetings will be cancelled?  

**Luc Audrain:** The next one is Asian friendly time on next Tuesday, 23rd/Wednesday Japan  
… next one is European friendly on Tuesday, 30th  

**Garth Conboy:** I have cancelled both of those now  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you, Garth; always so efficient  
… there is a meeting next week, remote, on the Publishing strategy and W3C  
… the PubSC has invited Avneesh to come and be a member  
… there were many +1s  
… we discussed for plans for strategy for 2020  
… Avneesh had useful comments  
… without objectives it is difficult to plan for strategies  
… as co-chairs we have prepared a list of objectives  
… which we discussed around some kind of model  
… idea to put objectives  
… a list of five bullet points in the agenda  
… what we could call objectives  
… what we expect Pub at W3C to do  
… for the publishing community  
… these five bullets are about existing standards like EPUB that are operational today  
… we rely on EPUB3 already  
… that was a big achievement from EPUB3 CG and the EPUBCHeck being modified  
… by the PubBG, and development of this new release  
… So this is first real objective, to maintain EPUB3 and EPUBCHeck  
… Let me present all the points before taking questions  
… Second one is Publications on the web  
… We have a place to think about Web Publications  
… two years in the WG, a huge effort  
… expect a deliverable in the first semester of 2020  
… Web Publication for Audio Books  
… other discussions in this area that would bring specializations, depending upon needs of industry  
… what is not clear is what the PubWG will do after the publication of Audio Books  
… One objective is to identify needs from the publishing industry for publishing on the web  
… on higher level, we think different kind of books may have different needs  
… and something could help to define the needs of the publishing industry  
… and to collect needs by sectors  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I would suggest changing "books" to "publications"

**Luc Audrain:** we had this idea that STEM would need web publications; but we have not seen this result today  
… PubBG would be place to identify needs of the whole industry  
… also identify needs...what we do in publishing with web tech needs to be improved, rendering content  
… rendering content on web with web tech we have issues  
… there we have understood that CSS is place we should contribute to fulfill this objective  
… there are some difficulties because we need resources to contribute here  
… thanks to some of you, like Dave, there are huge efforts  
… We can also expect new features could be incubated and tried  
… between web people and publishing industry  
… where we have a new PubCG in place  
… they started recently  
… and the visual narratives CG  
… to bring new narrations to the web  
… places where these [ideas] can be incubated  
… these are the five areas of the bullet points. Now invite your comments  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to the five bullets and their sub-bullets. Great work from the chairs!

**Tzviya Siegman:** I just want to say first of all  
… the objectives here are just a draft and we do need feedback  
… I had envisioned the objectives being a bit broader  
… In some ways, this reminds me of the charters we already have  
… so the current charters may have not worked out as well as we hoped  
… we have had issues getting feedback from all the sectors we need  
… would be nice to get feedback from scholarly community, but our approach to date has not worked  
… our needs are not reflected yet  
… The objective should be to assess the needs and do a gap analysis  
… to see what the web and publishing are lacking  
… maybe we need to refine this a bit  
… to assess where our previous actions have not worked as well as hoped  
… and where we got caught up in vision before needs  
… I would hope we would have more clear documentation of business needs  
… We are all aware of business needs, but if they are not documented, we cannot actually work on them  

**dave:** a couple of things  
… on the smaller scale, I think we need some clarity  
… we need to figure out what we are talking about when we say 'web publications'  
… there are already publications on the web  
… Moby Dick as blog post  
… read scholarly content online  
… in some sense the problems of publications on the web are business problems, not technical problems  
… careful not to solve business problems by creating new technologies  
… I agree with Tzviya it would be good to have a higher level layer  
… to answer questions of what our mission is  
… what sort of world are we trying to get to  
… and things  
… the gaps in the web platform; what we want to do but cannot  
… are those technical; can those problems be solved by W3C  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://twitter.com/dauwhe/status/1149681148957745152](https://twitter.com/dauwhe/status/1149681148957745152)

**Dave Cramer:** what makes EPUB, EPUB  
… posting one of my Twitter rants which touches on some of these points  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you; that has been ready by many people  

**Avneesh Singh:** coming to same things but from different directions  
… two questions I asked were our target audience, our target beneficiaries  
… and what will compel them to come to this work  
… if we do not have answers to these questions, then we are shooting in the dark  
… it answers some questions  
… EPUB3 has a short-term plan  
… to push this ecosystem effectively  
… Beyond this, in SC, it also indicates another thing  
… is our target only IDPF audiences, or beyond?  
… to reset our mindset about EPUB3  
… when I saw the initial agenda in the publishing strategy document, it is highly focused on EPUB3  

> *Karen Myers:* ,...I would like to suggest we remove this anchor from our minds

**Avneesh Singh:** not everyone is from the EPUB world  
… and they want solutions  
… maybe how to capitalize on EPUB  
… maybe the right question is what format are you using and what do you need  
… maybe some distance from EPUB3, we will get new answers  
… also George was talking about other docs  
… why these cannot be on HTML page publications  
… where we talk about the future  
… with a reset I think we can get to a solution in a better way  
… maybe reset from EPUB3  

> *Karen Myers:* .,..and see where we want to go collectively

**Garth Conboy:** I agree with much of what Avneesh said, but think we need to be careful  
… the whole Publishing@W3C was initiated by a merger of the IDPF into W3C  
… and EPUB was the lifeblood of the industry  
… be careful not to be pejorative to EPUB  
… it is an important animal to be nurtured going forward  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to feeding and nurturing EPUB

**Garth Conboy:** we got to WP because we tried to make a clean break from EPUB  
… think of EPUB as a fine sailing ship, not an anchor  

**Avneesh Singh:** Just to clarify, Garth  
… what I am saying there is a strong constituency of IDPF members  
… what i am saying is to look to a broader constituency beyond EPUB  
… talk about future in web oriented world  
… another part of constituency is not totally satisfied with EPUB  
… maybe scholarly is example  
… these are people who can provide us some strong business cases  
… who can help us to make publishing on the web more successful  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I wanted to reiterate what Avneesh said  
… we are not killing EPUB; it's strong and good  
… but maybe consider what to add in the future  

**Luc Audrain:** More comments from others?  

**Rachel Comerford:** going forward as we prepare for this meeting for next week  
… a couple things to keep in mind  
… make sure that we are collaborating  
… in a single location  
… in a single group  

> *Karen Myers:* ..to establish these objectives and keep our proposed agendas and details in mind

**Rachel Comerford:** keep these conversations moving forward  
… propose we try to keep all of this in the Google doc that Wendy had started  
… keep all of that commentary and conversation together in one place  
… Getting the conversation started  
… next week is to start by talking about the things we all agree upon, what we know to be true  
… EPUB is not something that is going away, and not something we want to go away  
… and some other truths we want to perpetuate as a group  
… putting those out there in writing may help us to not revisit those conversations and lose time in going through them over and over again  
… I will with Wendy's permission add a section to the agenda  
… these are the things we know to be true  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to Rachel

**Rachel Comerford:** we can have that as our strong starting point going into the conversation  
… I see a strong support on irc  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I wanted to note that having this conversation here today  
… was to help us in thinking about what these objectives are  
… that document is not a public doc and will not be a public doc  
… we will take solicitation of ideas  
… there is a tiny proprietary piece of SC business that we cannot share with everyone  

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you, Liisa  

**Rachel Comerford:** I definitely appreciate that and thank you for sharing that  
… I was surprised to see PWG work may be adjourned until publishing sectors pushes reveal  
… I was a bit panicky  
… pushing a message that PWG might retire or stop working seemed like an extreme message to throw out in a public draft  

**Luc Audrain:** Ok  
… It's not an affirmation, just a question  
… I understand the @ is questioning the post charter  

> *Avneesh Singh:* better to say: "Further work on PWG will continue after collecting strong business cases from industry"

**Luc Audrain:** I understand that PubWG charter will end; there is a big question for the working group  
… what do you mean by mis-interpreting, Tzviya?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Some of tweets  
… when people see 'suspending' does not necessarily mean 'ending'  
… concerned that people think that we are ending the PubWG  
… the charter will end, but not decisions have been made  
… ending the charter is not under discussion  
… let's be careful what we put in public  
… tweet, 'since web publications is dead, here is my proposal'  
… in the past week or so  

**Luc Audrain:** not just now; that is a big issue  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Tzviya, that is a great lesson to take now and in our conversations next week  
… it is easy to be misinterpreted  
… one objective is to show on-going work to support publishing both on and off the web  

**Luc Audrain:** ok  
… more comments from people who did not express their thoughts until now?  
… I understand that there is a need for a higher level of something  
… of objectives  
… I don't know how and who could work on that for the meeting next week  
… or it's something we try to extract from this draft of objectives?  

**Dave Cramer:** I can help work on it  

**Rachel Comerford:** I am happy to help as well since we need to shape an agenda  

> ***Action #1: work on agenda refinement (Dave Cramer)***
{: #action1 .action}

> ***Action #2: work on agenda refinement (Rachel Comerford)***
{: #action2 .action}

**Luc Audrain:** Also speak about publishing industry, inside W3C, we are very few  
… on a personal view  
… I think it's very positive to see how many people are in the EPUB3 CG  
… there were more than 250 people who have registered for this CG  
… I understand they are not always there or on calls or irc  
… but it's a huge group, which means people receive information, agendas on the mailing lists  
… but by the way, other groups are not so populated with publishers  
… we know it's difficult for publishing orgs to be full members of W3C  
… after merger of IDPF and W3C  
… we understood there was a TPI period of two years, but it's not being continued by many publishers  
… even if we have @ we are not adding so many people  
… the audience is not easy  
… as co-chairs we think the PubBG can be a hub  
… to collect news from publishing industry, to look at things being done without standards in the business  
… some digital publications like web toons  
… question of audience and target is not an easy one; I would like to push on that discussion  
… I see no one on the queue  
… Thank you for your help and comments  
… in the agenda we had one more technical point about metadata needs and best practices  
… I don't think there is time  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think not  

**Luc Audrain:** Liisa, can you speak to that?  
… we think the BG should work more efficiently  
… with your help we should identify business cases and business issues and we should work on them until we get some kind of resolution  
… we should work on a proposal basis  
… one or more people work on these points  
… bring proposals and then we have resolutions  
… and we explain these resolutions  
… we think we should work more on a point by point basis  
… as proposals  
… this means we cannot have a call every week  
… we would have two calls per month  
… one for European and one for Asian times  
… these people would agree to take these business points and have time to work on it  

> *Karen Myers:* ..on their own by discussions by calls outside the PubBG calls

**Luc Audrain:** we would have two calls per month  
… but have a list of business points that would be  
… .taken by one or two people  
… and it could also be a month later  
… could be a European or Asian business case  
… if we don't agree, we have discussions, but in the end we have a resolution  
… that is the plan for the end of summer  
… any comments or questions?  

**Avneesh Singh:** I think the business group has a very important role to play in W3C  
… W3C does standards for web development  
… where publishing has important role to explore business cases and put them in front of the technical community  
… I like this plan  

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you, Avneesh  
… We are at top of the hour  
… thank you all for your contributions  

> *Karen Myers:* [adjourned]

---


### 4. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): work on agenda refinement (Dave Cramer)
* [Action #2](#action2): work on agenda refinement (Rachel Comerford)
