---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-11-26
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-11-26
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-11-26",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-11-26",
            "endDate": "2019-11-26",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wolfgang Schindler"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Greenberg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Karen Myers"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Julie Blair"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Cristina Mussinelli"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-11-26

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Nov/0005.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/11/26-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Tzviya Siegman, Wolfgang Schindler, Wendy Reid, Dave Cramer, Luc Audrain, Jeff Jaffe, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Jonathan Greenberg, Karen Myers, Avneesh Singh, Julie Blair, Cristina Mussinelli

**Regrets:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Bill Kasdorf

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Jeff Jaffe, Ivan Herman, Wendy Reid

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUBcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

> *Luc Audrain:* link to W3C fundraising page: [https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising](https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising)

**Luc Audrain:** Wrote to many companies  
… new explanatory page on website  
… funding not finished  
… wrote to European federation of publishers  
… hoping for results  
… discussions with some specific companies  

**George Kerscher:** Discussions with Avneesh at AB meeting  
… IMS Global not likely  
… but maybe some of their members  
… other companies  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I've also reached out to some publishers  
… some positive feedback  
… Daihei working on Japan companies  

**Luc Audrain:** Taking additional ideas  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Convincing vendors is good  
… also that people should put into their annual budget  

**Luc Audrain:** Answer Linked-In inquiries with requests to fund EPUBcheck  

### 2. Survey on future needs for publishers
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** At the SC, talked about needs for business, EPUB roadmap  
… idea of a survey with wide reach  
… short term and long term  
… Dave, Bill K., and I are working on the survey  
… Dave first draft  
… multilayer responses  

**Dave Cramer:** I'm [outlining subject areas](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit#)  
… need thought on how to get useful info  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We are hoping to use this to get more connections, more conversations  
… timeline early in the year  

**Jeff Jaffe:** more conversation is the heart of the matter  
… the team and me personally would be very interested in the conversation  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** How can we collect the audience for the survey  
… email addresses, etc.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Avoid Googledocs; issues in some countries  
… Survey Monkey? Is it accessible?  
… send to entire BG and CG  

> *George Kerscher:* jeff: q+

**Tzviya Siegman:** our Twitter followers  
… Dave's informal doc has 175 comments about the business model  
… are we focused on spec or business model?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** In terms of who should get the survey, at a minimum it should be the membership of the IDPF  
… it would be an opportunity to reengage  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** What we are getting out of it is somewhat open-ended  
… support for short-term needs for EPUB  
… something more that need standards for  
… if we see business stuff --> important to put in front of our community  
… a new decade  
… future of publications for 2020 and beyond!  
… launching point  

**Avneesh Singh:** Survey Monkey is accessible; only with simple controls  
… avoid GoogleDocs  
… outreach to IDPF community  
… but remember the history  
… more outreach is good  
… future? WP?  
… bigger leap ahead of EPUB3  
… but open-ended  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Back to the question about the scope. To update, we've been having conversations about whether EPUB3.2 should go to rec track, there was a lot of strong opinions  
… in the conversation we observed that it is hard to make a decision on that when we don't have a roadmap  
… that created a bunch of activities, like Dave with the CG, to define the roadmap  
… but not everyone is in the community group and we need to have broader outreach  
… let's look at broader questions  
… the inner circle of the highest priority is the EPUB roadmap  
… but let's also look for other things  

**Wendy Reid:** Survey is a good idea  
… IDPF community a good place to start  
… but as broad as possible  
… new markets  
… Asia  
… India  
… Africa  
… small publisher  
… @@ Draft to digital  
… people using EPUB poorly  
… conversion houses  
… EPUB 2 users  
… BUT, not to take a long time  
… <1 year of planning  
… WG charter ends at 6 months  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1000 to wendyreid on timeline

**Wendy Reid:** without a WG - why do we need to exist  
… how to justify fees?  
… planning mode not good enough  

**Luc Audrain:** Bill K. has an external task force  
… tool for a broad population  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Thanks to Wendy for raising the timeline issue  
… the critical issue is not when this charter ends, it's when audiobooks ends  
… in the sense where the charter has expired, we can extend it, whether it's june or september  
… if it ends in June, that doesn't mean we have until June to finish the survey, we have until june to do the survey and review the results  
… and get a new charter ready  

**Garth Conboy:** +1 to complete survey ASAP  
… existing WG - will complete Audiobooks by end of charter  
… not sure that should be driving  
… survey may suggest digesting in the CG  
… I don't see urgency for a contrived WG by June  
… shouldn't press for the sake of having a WG.  

**George Kerscher:** Broadest scope survey possible  
… Authors  
… Higher Ed  
… Corporate publishing (e.g. IBM)  
… GOvt.  

> *Jonathan Greenberg:* +1 to all of these communities

**George Kerscher:** open educational resources  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Timing - need to send after the holidays  
… late Jan; early Feb  
… new year! new decade! what does it mean  
… where should we collect list of people to reach out to  
… ?  

**Luc Audrain:** Good point.  

**Wendy Reid:** WG got approval to push Audiobooks to CR.  
… will move to CR next week  
… looking for implementations  
… already have Calibrio and Readium  
… March for end of CR  
… hope to be on schedule  
… may be ahead of schedule  
… EXCITING!!  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Wearing my AB hat  
… but not representing the AB  
… we don't need a new WG  
… but by May (Spring AC) we should have a solid plan  
… tell people what we are planning to do  
… or we fall off the radar  
… lose time from our beloved team rep  
… could be a SC discussion  
… should at least have something on the roadmap  
… or we are forgotten  
… and look bad  
… and will need to beg for Ivan's time  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to analyzing data from survey as we get it

**Avneesh Singh:** We should have a progressive set of surveys  
… timeline is tight  
… but we should keep the survey open and get more input  

**Luc Audrain:** We will need a task force to process the survey  

### 3. 2020 a new decade
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** We thought 2020 was a good launch year  
… focus on accessibility  
… social themes: diversity and inclusion  
… concern for supply chain  
… need for publications and websites  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I think that's a great point  
… new decade new start  
… I hope this is in the survey, there's new regulations in the EU  
… we need to bring that regulatory factor in  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** Should we organize an event for accessibility; or incorporate in all events?  

**Luc Audrain:** Next topic  
… thought about having an event - futures workshop  
… include accessibility  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** Take into consideration  

**Karen Myers:** Remind everyone about TPAC, 26-30 October 2020, Vancouver  
… central for Asia and US; little further for Europe  
… could have a mini-event  

**Luc Audrain:** +1 to TPAC  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Future conversations is complementary to survey  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to ebookcraft

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** so we need to have the survey; decide what we want to do; and continue the conversation at events  

### 4. Audiobook
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Wendy, is there an opportunity, clean up chapter data  
… give them a bridge  
… what to do now; what is the future  
… people can know what to do; but also when the standard is adopted.  

**Wendy Reid:** We can publish something  
… the clearest chapter metadata you can provide, as informative as possible.  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* .. I can put data in the spec format so people know what it looks like

**Wendy Reid:** we want publishers (even experimental)  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Publishers are pushed to provide chapter data  
… no best practices  
… e.g. section and parts called out  
… consistency  
… In PRH we are doing it in spreadsheets  
… will be different in standard  
… some are doing nothing until the standard  
… or doing their own thing  
… then they won't revise per the standard  

**Wendy Reid:** No easy answer  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** But we need some best practices  

**Wendy Reid:** Spec is extensible and flexible  
… could take a spreadsheet and convert to a compliant manifest  
… look at the ToC structure for ebook  
… do chapters have names?  
… anything from a print book or ebook applies to audiobook.  
… subsections  
… spec allows such best practices  

**Garth Conboy:** Agree with Wendy  
… PRH does spreadsheets  
… others CS lists  
… ToC can be pulled into a file today  
… without the full standard  
… I think - yes  
… useful half-measure  

**Luc Audrain:** ToC in HTML format is an opportunity for accessibility  
… well received in France  
… does this answer your question  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Not really, but enough for today.  

### 5. 2020 scheduling for PBG
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** Next US/Europe on 17th of December  
… start again with 7 January.  
… Not definite  
… could modify  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I'm just looking at my calendar and not seeing anything on the 17th  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* [adjourned}

---
