---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-03-20
title: Publishing Business Group Telco - East Asia time — 2019-03-20
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco - East Asia time — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-03-20

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/03/20-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Junko Kamata, Karen Myers, Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni), Shinya Takami, Murata Makoto

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Meeting times
{: #section1}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** this is the East Asia and Japan friendly time  
… time has changed today due to daylight savings  
… is this time OK?  

**Murata Makoto:** it's ok for me  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* OK for me in Taiwan

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** We will go with this time every other week  

### 2. event calendar
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** prepared by Liisa and available  
… I listed in the agenda the link  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** explain about the meeting in September  
… TPAC is Sept 16-19 in Japan  
… During the TPAC period  
… I would like to propose that the PBG meeting take place on the Thursday  
… so the progress...and W3C/Keio can join in  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** for Monday 16-17, the Publishing WG is proposing to meet  
… PWG will have Monday and Tuesday meeting  
… and then Wednesday we don't have official one  
… Thursday, 19 we will have the PubBG meeting  
… if this is OK, I will place an application into the W3C web site as a co-chair  
… Is this ok for everyone?  

**Murata Makoto:** Did you propose a teleconference or f2f before TPAC?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I am talking about a face-to-face meeting during TPAC Fukuoka  
… on Thursday, 19 Sept.  
… I am supposed to send an application to W3C web site [for TPAC]  
… this date chosen because of Murai-sensei's availability  
… and PubWG has already filed application for Monday and Tuesday for their meetings  
… It has not been confirmed, but Thursday, 19 Sept in Fukuoka during TPAC  
… for that date I would like to propose a PBG to be held  
… Can everybody hear this?  

**Murata Makoto:** Will we have some free time on the 18th?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** there are no meetings scheduled  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will send an application into W3C for this 19 Sept. PBG meeting  
… and let you know the response I get  
… and send times and details later  

**Murata Makoto:** How many hours do you expect?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I don't know yet but will consult with others  
… if any other events we should consider for PBG?  

**Junko Kamata:** I wonder if publishing summit event will still be organized?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I am talking about this as a possible event for PBG  
… Monday Tuesday has already filed an application  
… I will find out what kind of agenda they have planned and share info with everybody  

**Junko Kamata:** thank you  

### 3. EPUB3.2
{: #section3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will combine with EPUBCheck topic  
… Romain sent information that EPUBCheck is updated  
… it is good to go  
… we would like everyone to test 4.0  
… so far, Voyager said he checked 3.0.1  
… files and no problem  
… so unless there are any issues with EPUBCheck  
… then EPUB3.2 is good to go  
… and EPUBCheck release candidate, everybody could test it  
… any questions?  

**Murata Makoto:** I asked about testimonials  
… do you have some info about this?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Wendy gave us a link to the testimonials  
… and Tzviya sent info to GitHub  
… which we shared with everybody, and with APL  
… testimonials have not been confirmed  
… I will confirm with the PBG mailing list  
… that testimonials could be good to go or not  

**Murata Makoto:** Marketing is extremely important in this world; we have to sell EPUB3.2  
… wonder if you plan to take advantage of a F2F meeting or conference to sell EPUB3.2  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I don't have a plan, but there will be a digital publishing summit in Paris in June  
… and one of program agenda items is to talk about EPUB3.2  
… Ivan will be joining in and co-chair from Hachette  
… I will join in and @ from APL  
… so this will be an opportunity to join in about this  

**Murata Makoto:** this is a great idea  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** before the Paris event, I don't think there are plans for a F2F  
… but we can do publicity through W3C site and other mailing lists  
… I will discuss with PWG co-chairs and other co-chairs at the steering committee meeting  

**Murata Makoto:** this is good. Seems some journalists might be a the Paris meeting  
… announcing 3.2 to public at that meeting would be a good opportunity  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** candidate stage, then we should make testimonials available to public  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* +1 to Makoto-san, most people in Taiwan still don't know about EPUB 3.2

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** this is an issue to discuss more widely  
… does anyone have any other ideas about Makoto-san's suggestions?  
… let me discuss with PWG and PBG co-chairs  
… and SC members such as Ivan  
… EPUBCheck 4.2.0  
… any questions or ideas to discuss?  
… I think we should make available this information available on the release candidate  
… and for everyone to test this  
… and then also talk about EPUB3.2  
… I hope PBG people will take the initiative to talk to each country's publishing industry related to this issue  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any questions?  

> *Karen Myers:* @: In Japan

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we are starting to evaluate EPUBCheck 4.2.0  
… I wonder how long we can test before the release?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Let me check  
… Karen, do you know?  

**Karen Myers:** no  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will check and come back to you  
… any other questions?  

### 4. EPUBCheck Fundraising reminder
{: #section4}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** We still need to raise more funds  
… any fundraising efforts anyone can do each country would be appreciated  
… are there any ideas for soliciting the fundraising by anybody?  

**Karen Myers:** Tzviya organized some T-shirts to sell  
… but I think there is a challenge shipping outside the US  
… perhaps do something for Japan or other regions  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* 4.2-rc was released few days ago and thanks for Bobby's help on the zh-tw translation, I'll publish the information (evaluation and fundraising) in Taiwan via TDPF channel

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Yanni suggested we could do a fundraising effort through the TDPF channel in Taiwan  
… I asked Taiwanese members to join this call today  
… Yanni, could you help me as well?  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* Sure I can help

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** thank you, Yanni for helping us  
… may I move on?  
… reports and discussions?  

### 5. Reader expectation for popped up content
{: #section5}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** this idea came up from Liisa for children's books and graphics books  
… let's say it's a story of some child  
… and you tap on the graphic and then some sort of message comes up  
… as popped up content  
… that is Liisa's idea to standardize  
… At PRH Liisa told us they are publishing some popped up content for children  
… she said she could make use of them for some use cases  
… I also know in Japan  
… at the beginning of digital publishing in Japan, like early 2010, there were popped up content  
… in ebooks  
… but they did not go anywhere  
… because digital text books for schools now  
… and graphical books are becoming more available in Japan, there might be a chance for popped up content as well  
… Anybody like to discuss this issue?  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* There are some titles in Taiwan use popped up content (for children), too.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I said we could continue to discuss this subject  
… Yanni, thank you  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* They usually use JavaScript to do the popped up

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** would share Taiwan's use case here with everyone in PBG?  
… Yanni said they use JS to do popped up  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* Sorry my mic doesn't work

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** if you can share the information, that would be appreciated  
… we can read what you type, Yanni  
… I will read out each item  
… from Google doc link in the agenda I sent out  
… First one is issues with Adobe and InDesign export  
… other is EPUB types being used in the marketplace  
… regarding InDesign ebook production, catalogue documentation  
… managing ebook files over time  
… expectations regarding reader access to update files  
… any ideas to discuss these topics?  
… are you interested to talk about these topics?  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* I can

> *Karen Myers:* [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kq5zOMzOxvHkM8yAgoqao0M0-z5FBzqtWWoO9qLS8PM/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kq5zOMzOxvHkM8yAgoqao0M0-z5FBzqtWWoO9qLS8PM/edit#gid=0)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other questions or comments  
… from call today or some item you would like to discuss?  

**Murata Makoto:** I have a question about the second item, types  
… I think people are using WAI-ARIA  
… are we migrating from EPUB types to the WAI-ARIA attribute?  
… how do people feel about this?  

**Shinya Takami:** Information yesterday  
… we had APL in Japan and i shared importance of fundraising for EPUBCheck  
… and I introduced the T-shirt fundraising  
… just for your information  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Any comments on Makoto-san's comment on EPUB Type?  

**Shinya Takami:** I don't think it's popular in Japan  
… we have to investigate this EPUB Type  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Anyone else have other comments on Makoto-san's question  

**Murata Makoto:** As far as I know, DAISY authors don't use this kind of meta information  
… on the other hand they use the class attribute of HTML  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Thank you, Makoto-san  

**Murata Makoto:** So I wonder if we should abandon this EPUB Type?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Any other comments on this point?  
… Makoto-san, how about this  
… why don't we include this as an issue to discuss at the US-European friendly meeting  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* I think most reading systems in Taiwan don't support that so publisher may not be will to use  WAI-ARIA features

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** and after that we will discuss at the PBG Asia/Japan friendly meeting the week after next  

**Murata Makoto:** deprecate this attribute in 3.2  
… is a suggestion  
… I will join the US/European friendly conference as well  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** The minutes will be shared with everyone, but I will also share with the other co-chairs of the PBG  
… Yanni commented that most reading systems in Taiwan don't support that so most publishers might not be willing to support WAI-ARIA features  
… I hear Yanni being on the same ground as Makoto-san  
… Anybody else have any other comments, then I will bring it to PBG co-chairs and to the US/European friendly conference call  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other comments or questions in general?  
… Ok, then action items from this meeting  

> ***Action #1: define application of PBG meeting at TPAC with co-chairs and come back to all of you (Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平))***
{: #action1 .action}

> ***Action #2: start EPUBFundraising actions (Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni))***
{: #action2 .action}

> ***Action #3: discuss EPUB3.2 with PBG co-chairs and steering committee how to promote EPUB3.2 publicly, before summit in Paris (Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平))***
{: #action3 .action}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I think that's what we discussed  
… any other actions or thoughts?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I am sorry to be late  
… next time I will be quicker to set up the call  
… thank you everybody  

> *Shinya Takami:* Thank you

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let's adjourn the meeting  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* thank you and bye

> *Karen Myers:* [adjourned]

---


### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): define application of PBG meeting at TPAC with co-chairs and come back to all of you (Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平))
* [Action #2](#action2): start EPUBFundraising actions (Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni))
* [Action #3](#action3): discuss EPUB3.2 with PBG co-chairs and steering committee how to promote EPUB3.2 publicly, before summit in Paris (Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平))