---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-06-18
title: Publ BG TPAC meeting — 2019-06-18
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publ BG TPAC meeting — Minutes",
        "about": "Publ BG TPAC meeting",
        "dateCreated": "2019-06-18",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publ BG TPAC meeting",
            "startDate": "2019-06-18",
            "endDate": "2019-06-18",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Luc Audrain"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shinya Takami"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publ BG TPAC meeting — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-06-18

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/06/18-pubfuk-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Luc Audrain, Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美), Shinya Takami, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. PBG event main goal
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** on the main goal: we are taking care of events organized by, in the past, IDPF  
… there was an annual conference, at least once a year in bookexpo  
… now we are considering at the pbg and steering committee regional events  
… edrlab has an event every year (this year in paris), this will be the 4th 'digital publishing summit'  
… goes into the vision of the future for the community at large  
… we discussed in the pbg and pbgsc to have a similar event this year in Japan, taking use of TPAC  
… we will be in Japan, in Fukuoka  
… so we had the idea of having an event in Fukuoka, within TPAC  
… the goal is to have an event on publishing, and having it at TPAC we can have audience and help to sync. on future standards (wpub) with the rest of the W3C committee  
… if there is a wpub standard at W3C, it would be the mix of the need of the publishing industry and the web standards  
… two of these energies would bring something new to the publishing industry  
… the pbg is the instance to make the Web comm aware of the needs  
… the pbg is at the interface between web standards and the publ community  
… that is the overall context  
… we have a chance to be in fukuoka for the publ. industry express the chance to be at W3C and also the concern we have because the digital publ. industry is already living  
… it uses existing standards  
… we have a message to deliver to the web community about trying to be synced with all that work on the web  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** comments?  

**Ivan Herman:** one more thing important  
… so many people from W3C to be Japan is a chance  
… making clear to Web com like internationalization  
… on Thursday morning, some experts may not be available  
… make use of social facilities around  
… break ups on Wednesday ?  
… look beyond the 3-4hours of Thursday  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** comments?  
… consider regarding timing to other meeting?  

**Ivan Herman:** beyond the event itself, Japanese W3C members have possibility to seat at any WG meeting  
… ask for an observer status to any meeting  
… in my experience, WG are open to that  
… observers are usually welcome  
… some Japanese publishers are W3C members  
… WG F2F meetings on Monday-Tuesday, and Thursday-Friday meetings  
… on Wednesday, ad’hoc meetings are organized  
… the event has to have a well structured program, but join other meetings ok  

> *Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):* Full TPAC schedule -> [https://www.w3.org/2019/09/TPAC/schedule.html](https://www.w3.org/2019/09/TPAC/schedule.html)

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Agree  
… looking only on Pub scope is missing a lot  
… as W3C member you are entitled to look to the global picture  
… as it is affecting all the models of publishing  
… I’ll talk to Digital Comic Association and EBPAJ, this way to look broader to W3C  
… take the best of TPAC opportunity  
… concerned on activity at the PBG  
… after annouce of EPUB3.2/EPUBCheck 42, what is next to focus on?  
… everybody no so sure about.  
… Audiobook obviously, but after?  
… at this TPAC, we need to be aggressively create an opportunity beyond traditional activity  
… discussion at PBG has to be broader to co-chair steering wheel to Web publication profiles  
… Naomi-san position from W3C Japanese members?  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** respect what members say  
… listen people say about that  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1 to Naomi

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** what are the interested in?  

**Luc Audrain:** i would be happy to know about what Japanese members say  
… it would be important to get into this program what Japanese concerned are concerned with related to this work at W3C, what the hopes and expectations are  
… most of the result we would get from this event is a confirmation of the Japanese members' efforts  
… reaffirm that they are included and it is a good choice for them to be at W3C  
… this is my high level goal of being in Japan  
… we must be aware of today's expectation of Japanese publishers and their business needs  
… it is very important to have this information  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** I heard from Japanese pub is not one single answer  
… Daihei a leader to synchronize opinions of Japanese publishers on tech and business points  
… Luc is your question on TPAC event  

**Luc Audrain:** my goal is to make this event fruitful for Japanese publishers  
… what would be interesting in an event, explain to the people who would be there from Japan  
… people being there are members of w3c  
… but if non-members have concerns would have to be discussed as well  
… practical question: how open is the even's audience?  
… we had this question to makoto  
… is it open for W3C members only who must be registered  
… or is it open to anyone  
… it would help Naomi's question  
… we should be aware in the PC what is to be expected  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** what topic for Japanese members  
… some not happy from EPUB 3.2 maintenance  
… why continuing to be W3C member?  
… Daihei is providing heads up for the need of Web tech for publishing companies  
… observer from outside W3C members and guests to PBG event  

**Ivan Herman:** possibility to invite non member to some event has to be checked  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** it is possible on some conditions: business dev to check for membership application  
… guest as an observer  

**Ivan Herman:** that’s for the week as a whole; possible to be more open for that event?  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** I’ll ask Alan about it for the PBG event  

**Ivan Herman:** not have answer now but ask to Alan and/or Karen  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** I will send a mail to them  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** this is an exposure for W3C activity to publishing industry in Japan  
… promotional opportunity for W3C  
… Takami-san any comment  

**Shinya Takami:** this event should be open  

**Luc Audrain:** other pratical issue: translation  

### 2. meeting agenda
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** agenda in English translated in Japanese,  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** on agenda 1, event open to publishers like Publishing summit in Burlingame in 2017?  

**Luc Audrain:** my personal view is it should be a promotional event for w3c  
… i do not think opening it like in Burlingame would bring more people from Europe  
… your experience of the local community is important  
… Burlingame was not a free event, I think until now we decided that this would free  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** you have to pay for a participation event per day  

**Luc Audrain:** ie, one day for TPAC  
… logistical issue about the size of the group  
… we will have some kind of registration, we can count the number of people  

**Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):** w3c has a welcome desk, give out a badge, etc  
… there will be a reception desk with badges  
… admin team will not have info on who goes where  
… normally circulate a piece of paper in the room to have some more information  
… list of participants in hte meeting room  

> *Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):* luc > [https://www.w3.org/register/tpac2019/registrants](https://www.w3.org/register/tpac2019/registrants)

**Luc Audrain:** i would be happy to have it as open as possible  
… at least for the local and beyond area  

**Ivan Herman:** business group as usual group meeting, one extreme  
… other extreme: small symposium like in Burlingame  
… feeling: BG F2F with guests ?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** combination  
… presentation plus discussion  
… and also round table discussion  
… not to be one just one side  

**Luc Audrain:** I agree  
… there are two ways for items  
… we should have some kind 'keynote' speakers on what is at stake to be at W3C  
… EPUB3.2 is already there, and it is done (and we will address the specific Japanese issue)  
… the big picture  
… but we should not have only the presentations, but also round table discussions  
… I have the feeling it is difficult for Japanese people to speak to a large audience  
… we could set up a sign in the morning for subgroups, with very small workshops, 5-6 people around one subjects  
… they could discuss it in Japanese with one or two key ideas  
… if we keep the formal presentations we may not have the trick  
… the even would not be fruitful  
… I also think the roundtable would not be fruitful either  
… some keynotes would be good, 1-2 on information like epubcheck, epub adoption  
… the other items discussed in small groups like a11y in japan, directions in future  
… i do not know whether this is logistically possible  
… for 8-10 people or less  

**Ivan Herman:** small group would be great but practically very difficult  
… would be space around?  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* q＋

**Ivan Herman:** should be explored  
… Wednesday has that sort of meeting, so active pub member would use that space to communicate and then report to the F2F meeting  

> *Naomi Yoshizawa (吉澤直美):* +1

**Ivan Herman:** a11y in Japan on Wednesday in a breakout session  !  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** then we have this group prepare in advance the discussion in breakout  
… room for the event, small rooms  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** exchange email to discuss further  
… next call  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* ＋１ to Luc

**Luc Audrain:** my proposal is to have a meeting every two weeks  
… until the event  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let us target that  
… let me organize this  
… adjurn the meeting  

---
