---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-02-19
title: Publishing Business Group Meeting—Asia time — 2019-02-19
---

# Publishing Business Group Meeting—Asia time — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-02-19

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Feb/0022.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/02/19-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Junko Kamata, Karen Myers, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Murata Makoto

**Regrets:** Jun-ichi Yoshii, Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni)

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Murata Makoto:* Daihei-san is introducing himself as a co-chair.

**Dahei:** introductions and agenda  

### 1. Meeting Organisation
{: #section1}

**Dahei:** The previous meeting is basically for Europe and US.  
… The minutes are available.  
… Today's agenda is the same as in the previous  meeting.  
… But for Asian people.  

**Murata Makoto:** are decisions taken on each of the two calls?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** yes, essentially decisions can be taken twice  

> *Murata Makoto:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I would like to add that we should come up with a process to make decisions via email  

> *Leslie Hulse:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** and we can discuss things at these meetings  

> *Junko Kamata:* +1

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let's go that way  

#### 1.1. Meeting times going forward
{: #section1-1}

> *Murata Makoto:* Every decision will be done by e-mail rather than in meetings.  In meetings, we discuss but will not make decisions.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** at the 12 Feb meeting it was discussed to have European and US friendly meeting and one Asian friendly meeting  
… for European and for Japan/Asia, only once in the month is not frequent enough  
… so there was talk that there should be four meetings in a month  
… then the co-chairs discussed and we re-proposed how it goes  
… once for US/Europe friendly time zone, and the other one in two weeks for US and Japan/Asia friendly time zone  
… so twice in a month  
… and see how it goes and then come back and review it  

> *Murata Makoto:* Good to me.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we would like to confirm if that is ok with everybody  
… any queues or questions?  

> *Junko Kamata:* +1

> *Murata Makoto:* Let' see what happens.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** seems like everyone is ok  
… then I will move on to the next topic  

### 2. ISO Work
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** this is something Murata-san talked about it  
… he was clearly saying  
… talked about EPUB3.1  
… new work item  
… LCP for EPUB  
… Milano meeting of ISO  
… end of March  
… and end of May in Milano  
… and we can talk about ISO work in September  
… pre-TPAC there will be an ISO conference in Fukuoka  
… we can use these opportunities to reflect the situation  
… Liisa would you like to fill me in?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think you covered it  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any questions?  
… ok  

### 3. Event calendar for publishing events
{: #section3}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Liisa may touch upon this  
… there was a meeting held in NYC  
… with members of PubWG, PubG and the Advisory Board (AB)  
… there was some positive feedback and suggested we could have more regional meetings  
… Proposal made to have an event calendar of publishing events  
… people will include who will attend  
… and by seeing that calendar, people can communicate and help to organize a regional meeting  
… thanks to Liisa, she will create this calendar  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes  
… we will keep all the events, conferences that people brought up; anything that touches on the work we do  
… to coordinate more  
… and to look at budgeting for next year  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** does anyone have any questions in this regard?  
… Move along  

### 4. EPUB3.2 Next Steps
{: #section4}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** getting support and buy-in  
… EPUB3.2 to rec track was considered  
… schedule in March to make EPUB3 in public  
… based on final CG report  
… around the same time  
… so the global industry can immediately can adopt EPUB3.2  
… that was the discussion  
… Liisa, anything you want to offer?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** two steps  
… first, we have the new spec out and we have the validation out and those happen together  
… then the BG would do more work to get more public buy-in  
… to support how to announce it, publicize it  
… how we make sure that everyone is moving toward adoption  
… and that would follow some time in April  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any questions?  
… or thoughts?  

**Murata Makoto:** W3C solicits testimonials from W3C members  
… I know that 3.2 is not a Recommendation, but is it possible to accept testimonials to encourage adoption of 3.2  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I don't think we have discussed this  

> ***Action #1: Karen Myers to discuss possibility of testimonial page for EPUB3.2 adoption***
{: #action1 .action}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other comments?  

### 5. Category of Reports and Discussions; update on AB meeting, update on local meet-ups
{: #section5}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Liisa, can you please fill us in  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** The AB meeting we [Publishing BG/WG] had in New York  
… was an interesting meet-up of the AB that was here [NY] for their F2F meeting  
… they met with a small group of publishers and the chairs of several of our publishing committees  
… CG, BG, WG  
… we had presentations on history, state of EPUB; how some of us got into this work  
… progress of groups  
… AB gave presentations on Packaging and file formats  
… and there was open dialogue  
… a really great moment of people to ask questions  
… AB asked a lot of questions of the publishers; they asked us about DRM and why it's touchy  
… a really good open discussion, good energy  
… what the broader community can do, how we can work together  
… There was a presentation from AB about the process of making standards  
… understanding that standards take a long time to build  
… and publishing community tends to build standards after we identify a problem  
… there was good energy in a small group  
… A lot of us walked away with perspective that a lot could be done and discussed in these small group formats  
… and we thought we could talk with Audio publishers and retailers who are not otherwise involved  
… in this work and to understand it is happening and have information about it  
… and Daihei, discussion around TPAC for Japanese publishers  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I explained that APL and W3C Keio is going to organize a publishing summit kind of meeting around the TPAC in Fukuoka in September  
… We still need to figure out dates  
… this was discussed at APL  
… and with W3C Keio  
… they have already agreed to take a lead on this  
… the question about the timing is  
… one thing is during the TPAC people are claiming there are other meetings they need to attend  
… at the San Francisco summit, some people could not attend the other WG meetings  
… so one idea is not to have the Summit kind, perhaps before or after Fukuoka  
… before TPAC there is an ISO meeting also in Fukuoka also the week before TPAC  
… if people are amenable, perhaps we organize a one-day event on Sunday prior to the TPAC in Fukuoka  
… that is one thing discussed  
… and maybe holding it during TPAC in Fukuoka  

**Murata Makoto:** The ISO meeting is expected to end on the 13th  
… on the 14-15th  
… of September, W3C people would have nothing to do  
… it might be good idea to have meeting on 14-15  
… dates are 9th to 15th  
… basically EPUB related meetings would be on 12th and 13th  
… so that is why the 14th and 15th would be a great opportunity for the AB type meeting  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** one idea is to do it on the 15th  
… so 14th 15th we could bring back to other people  
… mainly APL and W3C Keio to discuss further and then come back to the Publishing BG for further discussion  

**Murata Makoto:** It might be impossible to use other commercial meetings rooms  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Is ISO meeting going to be held at @  

**Murata Makoto:** at Kyushu university  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other questions about TPAC in Fukuoka and possibility to hold a Publishing meeting  
… my understanding is prior to this TPAC Fukuoka opportunity there is going to be a digital publishing conference in June in Paris  
… that is where people could get together to have another regional meeting  
… that is another opportunity I can suggest as well  
… getting back to calendar  

> *Murata Makoto:* Any URL for the EDRLab event?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** purpose is to share these kinds of meeting opportunities face to face  
… and publishing industry related  
… please positively take participate in adding information to the calendar and to coordinate meetings wherever possible  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [https://www.edrlab.org/events/dpub-summit-2019/](https://www.edrlab.org/events/dpub-summit-2019/)

> *Karen Myers:* @: Do we have a URL for the EDRLab event?

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** just put it in  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I think some people from APL are planning to attend this  
… Yoshii-san; and possibly Florian; I will, too  
… other questions or information  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** are there other topics to be discussed in smaller groups  
… things that are particular to types of publishing or parts of the world  

### 6. Popped Up Content
{: #section6}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** next topic on Popped up content  
… this is good item to discuss  
… Liisa, could you fill in about Popped Up Content issue?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Popped Up Content, and the business requirements around it  
… is something we can address without addressing the underlying technology from a reading systems perspective  
… what kind of content needs to be enlarged, what kind of control do you as a publisher want to tell the reading systems  
… Sometimes footnotes are popped up  
… that is not done in a way that publishers have control  
… you may put in an EPUB type  
… but reading systems may put a UI around it  
… we would like publishers to have more control; to know where it starts and stops  
… have it gracefully appear and be degraded  
… not all reading systems support imaging and formatting inside of popups  
… a lot of books like children's picture books use pop-ups  
… from bus perspective, you want control of sizing of text, that box  
… put a background in it so it is readable  
… even when laid over some art  
… then extrapolate over the visual narratives  
… for visual novels, manga, or other places to enlarge something  
… if we could talk about what kinds of control we want  
… then we could one, inform the reading systems  
… and two, see if we can apply technology  
… so that the stuff pops up when you want it to  
… sometimes there are circular links....creates a bad reading experience  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** thank you Liisa  

**Murata Makoto:** this is a very interesting opportunity  
… first, is this going to be an activity in PubBG or WG?  
… do we do requirements first, or do we investigate solutions at the same time?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** anybody?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think in the BG, what we want to is to talk about the requirements and expectations and then document them  
… and with WG we talk about experiences in the marketplace and see if there is tech we have access to or we can build and go from there  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** so first stage is requirements in the PubBG  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes, the business needs around this  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** the PubBG we would want to confirm and quantify the business needs and then relate to the other working group to have this discussion on the technology side of it  
… anybody wants to express their thoughts, take advantage of me being in the Japanese friendly time  
… Anybody wants to say something in Japanese?  
… I will try to then translate into English?  
… Feel free to that here now  
… Ok, next item is Popped Up Content  
… Everybody thinks it's a good idea to explore in the PubBG  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think the next step to think about  
… think about whether the things you want to have pop up are not working well; whether you have control and if it's satisfying your needs and your authors'  
… order, speed, explore where the commonalities are  
… enough resolution, things popping beyond the border of the pages; those kinds of issues  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any thoughts?  
… shall we bring what Liisa explained to the next PubBG meeting to confirm  
… from POV from US, Europe and other attendance to explore what is working for pop up content and what is missing  
… shall we?  

**Murata Makoto:** I thought we would make a decision by email. So you might want to make an email proposal for the next meeting  
… and then we take a decision by email  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** shall we come up with a proposal in email to be shared among the other PubBG members?  

**Murata Makoto:** that would be great  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** that would be good  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Great!  
… any other thoughts on this issue or discussion?  
… or overall questions and comment time?  

**Murata Makoto:** My brain works much better now than at midnight  

> *Junko Kamata:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** that's great  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** so this Asia friendly time works  
… On top of Japan we should extend invitation to Korea, China and elsewhere to participate  
… For India, this is not a friendly time  
… they said they will attend the European friendly time  
… That is @  
… Yesterday I extended my invitation to the Japanese publishing people, including organizations such as APL, EDPJA, others  
… and with Yoshii-san's help, I reached out to the publishing companies individually  
… and those who have become W3C members  
… all the other Japanese related people  
… having some seat for PubBG  
… know about this meeting happening  
… and the Asia/Japan friendly time  
… I will make sure to extend this kind of solicitation to people in Japan, and next time for the other Asian countries  

**Murata Makoto:** Taiwan  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** any other comments or questions?  
… ok, Liisa, how are we doing as first-time chair?  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

> *Murata Makoto:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Doing great  

### 7. Next Steps and Action Items
{: #section7}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I would like to talk about last item  
… next steps and action items  
… my understanding is that for important items discussed  
… for each PubBG meeting  
… regardless of European or Japan/Asia friendly time  
… we will share  
… the item and information to be decided in PubBG by email  
… that is the case with the Pop Up discussion  
… Number two  
… Murata-san's comment  
… EPUB3.2  
… announcement  
… W3C's testimonials for EPUB3.2  
… that is something Karen will discuss and come back to us  
… .as for regional events  
… TPAC Fukuoka, Makoto-san presented  
… potential publishing meeting to be held Saturday/Sunday 14-15 Sept connected to the ISO meeting in the prior week and before TPAC  

> ***Action #2: Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平) to bring Japan Publishing event meeting to APL for further discussion***
{: #action2 .action}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** lastly, the Pop Up content, we will come up with a separate email to propose the Pop Up content issue  

> *Murata Makoto:* Great!

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** anything I missed  

> *Junko Kamata:* Great!

> ***Action #3: PubBG Co-Chairs to draft email on Pop Up Content***
{: #action3 .action}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** no other queues  
… we still have ten minutes  
… anybody wants to say anything, please do  

> *Karen Myers:* @: do we know name of anonymous callers?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** when we issue minutes, they will be listed  

**Murata Makoto:** be good if they would state their names now  
… or email us  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** also, you could email us as well  
… on the Publishing BG email list  
… I think we are good to go  
… Thank you everybody for this opportunity  
… We are looking forward to the next call  

> *Karen Myers:* [adjourned]

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** thank you  

---


### 8. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): Karen Myers to discuss possibility of testimonial page for EPUB3.2 adoption
* [Action #2](#action2): Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平) to bring Japan Publishing event meeting to APL for further discussion
* [Action #3](#action3): PubBG Co-Chairs to draft email on Pop Up Content