---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-02-12
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-02-12
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-02-12

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Feb/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/02/12-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Wendy Reid, Ivan Herman, Murata Makoto, Wolfgang Schindler, Luc Audrain, Junko Kamata, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Cristina Mussinelli, Dave Cramer, Mateus Teixeira, Bill Kasdorf, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Garth Conboy, Ric Wright, George Kerscher, Jeff Jaffe, Tzviya Siegman, Rachel Comerford, Karen Myers, Laurent Le Meur, Julian Calderazi

**Regrets:** Rachel Comerford, Derek Jackson, Jens Klingelhöfer, Avneesh Singh, Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Timing and frequencies of the calls
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** we've started to talk about changing the times of bg calls  
… every two weeks we'd have a Euro-friendly time, and and two weeks later an Asia-friendly time  

> *Garth Conboy:* Garth: I should have updated all the invites per what Luc is saying now.

**Luc Audrain:** so one call would be at 0 UTC, and one at 17UTC  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I got eight updates--should I accept them all?

**Murata Makoto:** can we make the euro call one hour earlier?  

**Luc Audrain:** it's the same agenda  

**Ivan Herman:** is the japanese call in one week or two weeks?  

**Luc Audrain:** two weeks  

> *Garth Conboy:* PBG Meetings:

> *Garth Conboy:* - Tues Feb 12th -- 12:00p Eastern (repeat every four weeks)

> *Garth Conboy:* - Tues Feb 26th -- 7:00p  Eastern (repeat every four weeks)

**Luc Audrain:** the agenda of today will be the Asia-friendly agenda of two weeks from now  

**Ivan Herman:** this means we will have BG only once a month, for Luc and I  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, unless there is some urgent subject that needs a decision  

**Ivan Herman:** I am not absolutely sure I like this  

**Murata Makoto:** can a meeting make a decision? Because two weeks later there will be another meeting with different people  
… which can make a decision  

**Luc Audrain:** we can share decisions  

**Ivan Herman:** it will be very far away in terms of time  
… my feeling was that we would have, every second week, a meeting like now, and every second week an Asia-friendly meeting  
… people could join both, or once  
… so we would meet every two weeks at least  
… this way there is one BG call per month  
… I don't think this will help in maintaining a regular discussion  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1 to ivan

**Garth Conboy:** I was going to split the difference  
… having a BG call once a week seems too frequent, even if it alternates  
… but maybe have a meeting every two weeks, but not with the same agenda  

**Murata Makoto:** sometimes because of agenda people have to attend anyway  
… for example today has ISO topics, so I feel obligated to attend  

**Ivan Herman:** so if we have alternate time zones each week but repeating agenda, it would be better  
… having one meeting a month is detrimental to the group  

**Luc Audrain:** the idea is to have the same agenda  
… ivan, you think it should be every week (with alternate time zones)  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I'm persuaded that every week alternating makes sense  
… if there's only a once-a-month call, then you might miss two months if you have to miss a meeting  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the call that I held for the PWG asian members...  
… those who participated were not interested in a call at an Asia-friendly time  
… we should ask the people in Asia what they want  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Avneesh has an issue with both times as well

**Tzviya Siegman:** it's not about what looks better, it's what is actually convenient  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** let me review  
… every other week, was a question  
… we felt strongly we should set up the time which Asian people could participate better  
… one of the directions of PBG in 2019 is to streamline discussions  
… and moving towards industry interests  
… and then conveyed to the WG  
… the scope and agenda should be narrowed  
… and then have one call friendly to Europe, and one to Asia  
… and talk about the same agenda  
… and we'll have the minutes of the first call as material for the second call  
… and most US people can join both meetings  
… the second meeting is a good time to make a decision  
… I'm not going against the once a week idea  
… but I want to remind you of why we proposed today's schedule  

> *Luc Audrain:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-01-29-pbg](https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-01-29-pbg)

**Luc Audrain:** I will put the link where we discussed this option, and approved it  

**Ric Wright:** I'm concerned about duplicate agendas, but Daihei addressed that  

**Murata Makoto:** what Daihei said is interesting... everyone is going to suffer in the same way  
… when ISO topics are discussed, I am the liaison from SC34.  
… if I'm here I can explain, but if I'm not here I can't  
… will European people be able to understand what is going on in ISO?  

**Luc Audrain:** we have reorganized the agenda. the first section is just informational--not discussion  
… some European people involved in ISO, like me, could explain  
… and if questions came up, they could be addressed on the next call  
… we can try the every week thing; I think it's too many calls but we could try it  

**Ivan Herman:** when you say too many calls, it's the same as now  
… for US people it may be a lot of calls, but they can choose which calls  

**Luc Audrain:** for Liisa or Daihei, it will be a call every week.  

**Ivan Herman:** US people can choose. They can choose which call to join.  
… they are not obliged to be on all calls  

> *Garth Conboy:* PBG Meetings:

> *Garth Conboy:* - Tues Feb 12th -- 12:00p Eastern (repeat every two weeks)

> *Garth Conboy:* - Tues Feb 19th -- 7:00p  Eastern (repeat every two weeks)

**Luc Audrain:** so the resolution would be alternate-time calls, but every week  

> *Luc Audrain:* resolution : alternate time calls every week with same agenda

**Luc Audrain:** any objection?  

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** we will try and see how it goes?  

### 2. ISO work
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** in 2019 there will be three topics starting  
… 3.0.1 as international standard  
… new work item on EPUB a11y  
… and LCP/DRM for EPUB  
… it's starting; there are meetings scheduled in Milano at the end of March, and at the end of may in Ottawa  
… and then in Fukuoka before TPAC  

**George Kerscher:** a comment: we've been asked not to call it DRM for EPUB, we don't want to use that trademark with an ISO specification  

**George Kerscher:** this is just a matter of the trademark  
… and don't want another organization using the trademark  

**Laurent Le Meur:** I will propose it's called DRM for Electronic Publications  

**Murata Makoto:** I've already explained that possibility, and they're OK with that  

**Luc Audrain:** this work is starting; we'll make you aware after the meetings  

### 3. event calendar
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** we've planned to set up a google calendar, to collect publishing industry events  
… any of us can send events of interest to the chairs  
… and all can read  
… regionally or globally  
… any questions?  
… send any events to the chairs.  

### 4. next steps for EPUB 3.2
{: #section4}

**Luc Audrain:** we are on the verge of seeing EPUBCheck validating EPUB 3.2  
… it's being worked on by DAISY  
… and there's been a 4.2 alpha already  
… there are small tweaks to the spec itself  
… but when the first beta of 4.2 is released, scheduled on Feb 25  
… we hope there will be strong stability of the EPUB 3.2 report from the Community Group  
… then the next question will be getting support for adoption  
… and we should communicate that around the world  

**Dave Cramer:** note that most of us are already producing EPUB 3.2 :)  
… but it may take a while for reading system ingestion pipelines to upgrade to the new EPUBCheck  
… and thus allow the new features allowed by 3.2 that aren't in 3.1  

**Luc Audrain:** we could demo a file that is validated by the new EPUBCheck and also use ACE  
… it would be nice to have a practical event  

**Luc Audrain:** that ends the informational part of the meeting  
… now we hope to discuss more about the AB meetup  

### 5. AB meetup
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** this brought interest in local meetups  
… Liisa would have made the report, but she is ill  
… could someone else recap the meeting for us?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I thought it was successful  
… it showed the pub community what working on web standards is like  
… and it showed people on the AB and W3T about the business side of publishing  
… Dave's history of EPUB starting in 1999, and the stories that Liisa told about interop told a great story of what it's like to work on EPUB, and how it differs from the web  
… and good info was shared by berjon & tink about the time committments/timelines for working on browsers  
… it was a bit terrifying  
… it was a small group--twenty to thirty. there were a lot of side conversations. it was a chance to build relationships.  
… that was part of the success. it was fun.  
… selected speakers and targeted topics were a key to success  
… i think such events would be valuable in the future  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 Tzviya for organizing the program and speakers

**Luc Audrain:** we should propose this type of event as an alternative to conferences  
… and could be good networking  
… how could we manage to set up these kinds of meetups locally  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* and +1 to Karen for all the work in organizing the event in such a short time!

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Yoshii-san and I had a discussion about this  
… first of all, taking the opportunity for a F2F is important  
… having actual conversation is good  
… taking advantage of TPAC in Fukuoka, we talked about APL etc and discussed with Keio, and organize some sort of publishing summit  
… doesn't have to be same as in SF two years ago  
… but have something similar to AB meetup  
… and have atmosphere where free conversation is possible, and have both business and tech people present personally  

> *Murata Makoto:* Before TPAC or after TPAC?

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we haven't figured out details  
… during, before, or after  
… APL and W3C Keio can coordinate  
… and then we will present to PBG  

> *Murata Makoto:* ISO meetings (in particular, JWG7) will happen before TPAC.

**Ivan Herman:** two questions, one is before or after?  
… and where? at the place of TPAC or in Tokyo?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the summit in SFO was valuable, for those of us involved in W3C doing something in TPAC is hard. We're often triple-booked. I'd encourage doing it before or after rather than during  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* q＋

**Luc Audrain:** the ISO meetings will be the week before TPAC  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** taking advantage of TPAC in Fukuoka, with people already there  
… it would be very difficult to organize away from TPAC  
… we want to do in Fukuoka  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 for Fukuoka

> *Luc Audrain:* dauwhe: AB Meetup exchange with business people

> *Luc Audrain:* … but business people not at TPAC

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 dauwhe

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** It's a problem, we did succeed in getting people in getting people to the Hotel in California  
… which were not the usual suspects  

**Karen Myers:** I wanted to make sure that if the event happens during TPAC, you need to get in touch with meeting planners at W3C, like Naomi and and Alexandra  
… there are a lot of logistical things, and would need to modify contracts unless it's entirely offsite  
… and we may need to think about weekends or evenings  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* q＋

**Luc Audrain:** I agree with Ivan  
… with Daihei can make something interesting from this opportunity  

**Rachel Comerford:** Daihei added himself first  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** To follow up on Karen's point  
… Murai and Yoshi are involved  
… and Naomi Yoshizawa will help coordinate logistics  

**Rachel Comerford:** my concern about doing this during TPAC, in addition to what Dave said  
… it does isolate us from the rest of the W3C community, thus we can't participate in other things, we can't contribute to other groups  
… I was invited to a11y group meetings, but I couldn't because of a publishing event  
… which makes it harder to do outreach for publishing  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Rachel Comerford:** I won't want to end up in a silo  

> *Dave Cramer:* +10^1100

**Tzviya Siegman:** there were many people in Burlingame from a11y, CSSWG, etc. who would have wanted to attend but had conflicts  
… it built a wall between publishing and the rest of W3C  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* q＋

**Luc Audrain:** I don't know if this might be an evening networking event  

**Ivan Herman:** I agree with the concerns  

> *Luc Audrain:* dahei q+

**Ivan Herman:** I thought that Daihei's idea was before or after TPAC, which would avoid the problems  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 before or after TPAC in Japan

**Ivan Herman:** but it is a longer stay in japan for some  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** we would like to extend and spirit of the AB meetup  
… to the TPAC meeting  
… we have no intention to obstruct any opportunities at tpac  
… so it doesn't work during TPAC time to have a publishing meeting  
… either before or after, or outside of TPAC programmed time  
… I'll bring this back to APL and W3C/Keio  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 Daihei's approach to evaluate further and figure it out

### 6. pop-up content
{: #section6}

**Luc Audrain:** we also had planned a discussion on pop-up content  
… expectations we have as a reader or as a publisher  
… why would we use popped-up content  
… do we have strong opinions about this? For footnotes or other things?  
… and share the value of developing more precise standards or best practices?  

**Dave Cramer:** EPUB spec doesn’t stop this  
… can of worms  
… if we gather expectations, we have a better chance of this coding working without JS  
… by using epub:type  

**Wolfgang Schindler:** I see two use cases  
… one is a glossary  
… such a popup might be good  
… if you have a second EPUB as an external source dictionary, click on a world and get a dictionary entry  
… there is an EPUB spec for that  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* figures and tables popping up would be useful too

> *Luc Audrain:* acl tzviya

**Tzviya Siegman:** I can think of hundreds of uses, however I will remind everyone that we're phasing out epub:type and phase in aria roles  
… and those footnote popups don't work in most reading systems  
… and they are unreliable  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1 to no epub:type; use ARIA roles

**Luc Audrain:** we are speaking about expectations  
… today EPUB 3 is running with epub:type  
… and aria roles are devoted to a11y  

**Luc Audrain:** next call is next week at 0 UTC  

**Garth Conboy:** and this is the same agenda as this week's call  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, I will send agenda with link to minutes  

---
