---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-12-10
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2019-12-10
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-12-10",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Business Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-12-10",
            "endDate": "2019-12-10",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Murata Makoto"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jun’Ichi Yoshii"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Junko Kamata"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2019-12-10

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2019Dec/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/10-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Jun’Ichi Yoshii, Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni), Junko Kamata, Murata Makoto, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Scribe(s):** Murata Makoto

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Murata Makoto:* Hi, Lisa.

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* it's already time to to start bt we'll wait fora few minutes

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** The agenda is the same as that for the previous European timezone meeting.  

### 1. Epubcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** epubcheck fundraising. 40000 USD more is needed. APL will pay 10000 USD.  
… While I was in Japan last week, I contacted ABPSJ and Digital Comic Association, and also spoke with some Japanese companies.  
… Japanese companies are likely to pay some. But not enough.  
… Yanni, can TDPF pay?  
… Any chance for TDPF?  
… also spoke with EBPAJ.  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* I'll ask the Secretary General of TDPF to see if TDPF can pay.

**Junko Kamata:** How about comic bookstores?  
… Through APL, Japanese publishers already contribute.  

**Murata Makoto:** I would like to point out that APL is also a member of the Japanese DAISY Consortium and thus APL contributes twice.  
… Kamata mentioned some other names of comic distributors.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** will approach BookLive and Yahoo.  
… Any other possible contributors?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Many people feel that epubcheck is already working and thus do not understand why more fund is needed.  
… But maintenance include adjustment to computing environments (including OS upgrade).  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Japanese people often think that epubcheck is working and thus no more fund is needed.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Apple, and other parties might contribute next year but not this year.  
… I am contacting such companies.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** 40,000 USD is still needed. Is this true?  
… By February, we need this money.  
… Have not spoken with BillK.  

**Jun’Ichi Yoshii:** I will speak with Mobile Book Japan people.  
… Is it possible to send a formal request lettter?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** There is a W3C page about epubcheck fundraising.  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* I had several talks about digital publishing in Taiwan and Macau last months and I have mentioned the EPUBcheck fundraising. I'll check again if there are any group is willing to pay some.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** A document written in Japanese?  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* this is the page in English- [https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising](https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising)

**Jun’Ichi Yoshii:** Not a web page but rather a letter from the PBG chair would work. Both English and Japanese are OK.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Will do.  

### 2. Survey on future needs for publishers
{: #section2}

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Liisa, could you give a summary?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** What do need for the future?  
… What is not handed well yet?  
… BillK, Liisa, and ? are jointly preparing.  
… Will get back to the PBG and community group.  
… Timeline. Draft by early next year.  
… Survey out in January or February.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Reaching ex-IDPF members.  
… Is it possible to reach them for requirement gathering?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Survey is not the best mechanism to reach them. Have to contact them directly.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Who is going to take care of the dissemination of the survery? And feedback gathering?  
… Some taskforce?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Should be discussed in the steering committee  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** When is the deadline for responding to the survey request?  
… TPAC next year in Vancouver.  
… By summer, I hope to have some result.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Early spring, I hope.  
… Before the summer  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Let me report more about discussions with Japanese people.  
… People think EPUB 3.2 is good enough.  
… But they also wonder what will come next.  
… I would like to send the survey to EBPAJ and others ASAP.  
… Yanni?  
… Can you talk now?  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* I can only type on IRC right now

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Fine  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* Can we have a Traditional Chinese version survey page for the people in Taiwan (maybe also Hong Kong and Macau)? I can help with the translation of the survey page and the feedback gathered.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I will get the English draft of the survey and send it to you.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Should enumerate all natural languages in which we are willing to receive inputs.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Will take of the translation from JP to EN.  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* And I can touch to the member or TDPF and who on the ex-IDPF list.

> *Junko Kamata:* +1

### 3. ebook, 20 years later
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Good timing to think about next generation.  
… Organizing a workshop?  
… What features never made it in the mainstream?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Liisa, can we share more about the discussions in your team?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** A lot of things we never made.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** At the last PBG meeting, US and European people talked about events about accessibility.  

> *Murata Makoto:* Then, I will type.

**Murata Makoto:** In reply to a Japanese law about accesibility of books, there is an ongoing meeting.  
… A series of meeting.  
… I believe that EBPAJ is involved.  
… ABPSJ is also involved.  
… But not APL ;-(  
… The series of meeting covers a lot of things, including increasing the number of volunteers.  
… But that APL seminar is detached from the government meeting.  
… I have a worry.  
… Different people will request different specialized solutions.  
… Publishers are unable to provide such solutions.  
… The whole point of EPUB is to allow born-accessible publications.  
… But this is not well recognized.  
… Big character books, braille, ....  
… Such specialized solutions are nice but will not become the mainstream.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Yanni, are you still there?  
… We have to pay more attention accessibility.  

**dahei:** There were some talks in TPAC at Fukuoka.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Random House. Think about what is easy to accomplish.  
… Hard things can come later.  
… Low-handing fruits first.  
… One publisher really would like to make their books accessible:  
… We learned a lot from that experience.  
… We are targeting another author.  
… To have born-accessible publications, authors have to understand.  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* The accessibility of publishing in not a *MUST* requirement (for example forced by law) in Taiwan now.

**Murata Makoto:** The JP government is required to encourage publishers to provide accessible publications.  
… I feel that the EBPAJ profile must be revised for accessibility.  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* Yes, same in Taiwan too. TDPF is talking with the government to see if we can provide some funding to encourage the publishers.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I hear a lot of questions from publishers about accessibility.  
… Accessibility is a very important topic for 2020.  
… To sell publications in US and Europe, you are required to make them accessible by laws.  

**Murata Makoto:** I think that a joint meeting with ONIX and Publishing@W3C would be very useful.  
… I just want to say that more synergy with ONIX would be very useful.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Audiobook metadata  

> *Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni):* I had some technical and business talks in Taiwan and Macau last month and I briefly introduced the Audiobook-profile and its' progress to the community. I'm thinking about translation the specs. of Audiobook and LPF into Traditional Chinese with some samples.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Is this the last PBG meeting this year?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** No next Tuesday for the European timezone meeting.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** A calendar for the meeting next year is available.  
… Thank you. Adjourned.  

---
