---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-06-19
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-06-19
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-06-19

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/06/29-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rachel Comerford, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Tzviya Siegman, Dave Cramer, George Kerscher, Ivan Herman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Rick Johnson, Garth Conboy, Bill Kasdorf

**Regrets:** Luc Audrain, Bill McCoy

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Ivan Herman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Jun-ichi Yoshii:* join pbgsc

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** start with Dave's topic?  

### 1. EPUB 3.2
{: #section1}

**Dave Cramer:** we are finishing up, some discussion of the last minute things  
… opus as a core media type  
… the question is how does the process work now  
… per charter any change must be approved by the BG  
… I want a conversation on how we would go forward  
… in W3C parlance we should have a wide review, shout from the desktops, etc  
… what would we do in a BG?  

**George Kerscher:** we are not operating under an IDPF license  
… we should use a process of W3C would be appropriate  
… trying to follow as much as possible a w3c process would be o.k.  
… a public review period, and we respond to all comments that may change something on the spec  
… once that is done, we could go to a vote of the CG than it could be submitted to the BG for approval  

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

**George Kerscher:** this models the W3C process, and sounds good to me  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** you think that the vote should be in the BG?  

**George Kerscher:** yes  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the w3c process includes a wide review for i18n, privacy, security, etc  

**Dave Cramer:** that is the rec track process  

**Garth Conboy:** I would say no, make lots of noise, but this is not rec track  

**Bill Kasdorf:** we do not have a general principle  
… . we want to socialize before we finalize  
… we should (not formally) aggressively disseminate it to get comments  
… I think the CG is charted with finalized it and the BG approving it  

**Garth Conboy:** I believe Makoto requested a 2 months review cycle, which sounds me as a fine idea  
… it is good summer reading :-)  

**Bill Kasdorf:** that is certainly an adequate time for people to comment...  

**Dave Cramer:** I would ask for a formal vote on the CG to go for wide review  
… at that point it is not yet a BG vote  
… 2 months wide review, we will respond all comments  

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

**Dave Cramer:** . at that point we will ask for a blessing of the BG  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** I am ok with that  

> *Jun-ichi Yoshii:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** let's be prepared for comments coming in that if we model w3c process then we will also need proof of implementations  
… I don't know if we can do that  
… I am sure that there are some people who I won't mention who will make this point  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I'm not sure if that will happen  

**Ivan Herman:** let's just be prepared  

**Garth Conboy:** we set out on this to do this work more closely aligned with IDPF process in maintenance mode  
… but this spec is bringing things in line with 3.0.1, and there are tons of implementations  
… Google Play books, kobo, apple... you can make the case the entire spec is implemented  

**Ivan Herman:** that's fudging things, but yes :)  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what do you mean by fudging?  

**Garth Conboy:** I don't think you can point to a single implementation that does everything  

**Ivan Herman:** w3c allows that--it's feature-by-feature  
… 3.2 adds things that are not in 3.0.1  
… we must be prepared for such comments  
… what we are doing here is still sort of the idpf process  
… so if we are careful on the public message that we are not talking about w3c process  
… that may help  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I'm not sure if you're familiar with testing, but I can show how we do the testing for w3c specs, with automated processes and documentation  
… we'd need to create tests etc  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** when we say wide review, do we want to use the international coordination body to help?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** yes, that's appropriate  

**Dave Cramer:** we can use the language of the CG process, which actually controls us  
… we are just doing some optional thing  
… I would try to avoid rec-track language in this communication  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** George, Garth... how's the timing based on that thing we shall not mention  

**Garth Conboy:** the copyright attorney has approved language in the current spec with joint copyright, and the appropriate trademark  
… he doesn't see a problem with proceeding  

**Dave Cramer:** sounds like we have a rough plan. Cool!  

**Garth Conboy:** it's a smooth and polished plan :)  

### 2. language around fundraising for EPUBCheck
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** did anyone look at the rough levels?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** BillM was going to write the draft language for the fundraising  
… if we don't have fundraising we can't respond to the RFP  
… so if anyone else can write copy like this, please help!  

**Rick Johnson:** the other thing I mentioned last week...  
… a few of us who know our companies will be contributing  
… a statement from those people about money already being committed will help  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** good idea  

**George Kerscher:** I agree with Garth  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with rick's comments, but we won't have a website without someone to write the copy  
… any suggestions on who could do that?  

**Rachel Comerford:** I have no experience, but I can put my creative writing degree to work :)  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I can endorse Rachel's editorial skills :)

**George Kerscher:** this is pretty straightforward. I can help  

**Rachel Comerford:** thanks george!  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Rachel and George, if you can get started, it's easier to edit than write  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Since I"m not on the agenda... I've made some progress with external coordination task force  
… I mentioned last time we've had a spread sheet of organizations in various parts of the world or interest groups  
… with the name of the task force owner  
… the BG was interested in getting that spreadsheet and using it for RFP and fundraising  
… most folks were fine with that  
… would the BG send this out, or should the individuals contact the people they already know?  
… does that sound good?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think so  
… Luc is on our taskforce  

**Bill Kasdorf:** just a progress report. When the appeal is drafted, we can help send it out.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** can we double back on fundraising?  
… Rick, you mentioned that it would be good for people to make committments to get started  
… can anyone get such a commitment before the PBG call next week?  

**Rick Johnson:** I'm working on this with the core source team to get the top people there  

**Rachel Comerford:** i can get such a commitment  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can't promise anything  

**Garth Conboy:** I'm 98% sure, but whether I can say something by next week I'm not sure  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do we expect light attendance on Tuesday?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** even if we finalize the copy on Tuesday, we should wait until the next week to send stuff out  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I don't think we're likely to have copy by Tuesday  
… we need a few weeks to get the website ready  
… we can talk about fundraising and say we'll have a website in a few weeks  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we just talk about it on Tuesday, and ask for public statements  

### 3. Audio Task Force @ WG
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I wasn't a part of the conversations about the audio task force  
… did that work come up as a requirement?  
… should we start it in the business group to get requirements?  
… my concern is that kobo driving this as a quickly advancing part of the business might not get all the requirements  
… and might create a side spec  

**Garth Conboy:** there are two audio task forces. one is synchronized media, and the other is audio books  
… the idea is for audio WPs to work just as text WPs would work  
… it has gotten a lot of initial interest and participation, widely from atypon to google to kobo to readium  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* audio TF: [https://github.com/w3c/publ-wg/wiki/Audiobooks-TF](https://github.com/w3c/publ-wg/wiki/Audiobooks-TF)

**Garth Conboy:** what is going on now is figuring out how to encode audio books in the current wp spec  
… I don't want to slow down the momentum in the WG TF  
… I know how screwed up audio delivery is, so I hope this helps  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with garth. I forget who proposed the tf, it came up at the F2F  
… the main idea is that audio seems to fit into WP right now, and we wanted to get that started  
… it seems all the reading systems are active in the task force  
… this won't address synchronized media, but we want to be compatible with that  

**George Kerscher:** the TF is focused on putting audio spec into WP, and it seems to be going well  
… I think the requirements are there  
… there's no synchronized media in that audio spec  
… and Avneesh is quick to remind me it's audio with navigation  
… my concerns  
… 1. the audio industry needs something on a tighter schedule than w3c process can provide  
… 2. In epub 3.2 with media overlays, if we don't have the text but have a nav doc, you have an audio book with navigation  
… but I don't think the industry sees that as viable  
… so I don't know what we should promote  
… and MO EPUB 3.2 audio books should be easily converted to WP audio books  

**Ivan Herman:** to add to what was said  
… from WP point of view, the important point is whether it is appropriate for audio books  
… we want to be sure we're not missing anything  

> *Ivan Herman:* experiment: [https://github.com/w3c/wpub/tree/master/experiments/audiobook](https://github.com/w3c/wpub/tree/master/experiments/audiobook)

**Bill Kasdorf:** re george's concern about timing for the WG getting to REC  
… that seems to be a best practices thing  
… should BISG do something?  

**Rachel Comerford:** it's not on the list for best practices  

**Garth Conboy:** responding to George, what we have with MO in epub 3.2, but that's for synchronized text and audio, but I can't see that gaining traction in the short run as audio books  
… but in the general audio book space, there's no sync  
… and the audio rights may be disconnected from other parts of the book  
… I think WP can string together audio files, and it could be a boon for publishers in time  

**George Kerscher:** you know that with MO you don't have to have text, you can have just audio and nav, and it's legitimate  

**Garth Conboy:** yes, I know that  
… that's a valid point. Do we want to encourage that? it's an interesting question  

**George Kerscher:** if we don't think that MO is a short-term solution for the industry now  
… we should make that decision  
… then we need to figure out something that would meet that need, and it could be an accelerated implementation of WP audio books  
… knowing it could change as the spec becomes more mature  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we're in this place with a business expanding RIGHT NOW  
… whatever interim solutions will settle down  
… the people joining the market will be smaller and smaller  
… it's just how do we get audio with nav out there  

**Ivan Herman:** going back to liisamk's question  
… the new version of WP in draft will be out in one or two weeks  
… this will be very different from previous versions, due to having manifest serialization, schema.org, etc  
… at some point we should have the BG look at this  
… we'll need wider feedback  
… and that would include an experimental WP audio book  
… which might answer your concerns  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the business question comes in  
… there's a sync media group, what WP is doing is just audio+nav  
… maybe we should accelerate this, after BG review  
… you don't have to wait for REC to implement  

**Ivan Herman:** you should implement before REC :)  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** this should be added to the BG agenda  
… nobody on the business side of supplying files seemed to know about this, or think something wasn't working  

**Garth Conboy:** some of the excitement is kobo and us and readium in the position of ingesting lots of audio books, and know it was a mess  
… and we hope that WP could clean up the mess  
… we want more involvement from the BG with prototyping etc  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Luc was interested in this, but didn't have the bandwidth to lead the TF  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'm concerned about hitting the marks we set up about how we organized all the groups, giving people the opportunity to participate at all levels  

> *Garth Conboy:* Indeed!

### 4. agenda for next week
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do we have an agenda for next week?  
… RFP for epubcheck and fundraising and web site, and commitment for funding  
… epub 3.2 on track for wide review this summer  
… international coordination with both of those things  
… talk about audio task force  
… and requirements for handling missing pages from print  
… how do we start collecting these issues, and how do we develop best practices around them  

**Bill Kasdorf:** luc wanted to report on road map task force  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** anything else for next week?  

**George Kerscher:** I would like to get onto the SC agenda a discussion how we transition our IDPF temp members into W3C  

---
