---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-07-27
title: Publishing Business Group Steering Committee — 2018-07-27
---

# Publishing Business Group Steering Committee — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-07-27

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/07/27-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Luc Audrain, Dave Cramer, Tzviya Siegman, Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Garth Conboy, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Rachel Comerford

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Luc Audrain

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUB 3.2
{: #section1}

**Dave Cramer:** CG 3.2 last meeting, start wide review  
… sections to to review assigned to different people  
… widespread to the entire eco-system  
… 2 months process  
… PBG to approve the final doc  

**all:** reasonable  

**Dave Cramer:** get commitments from people  
… where will the report will be?  
… liking to other doc like a11y specs  

**Ivan Herman:** CG not published on /TR  
… will publish it in the W3C place  

**Dave Cramer:** in `/publishing/EPUB…`  

**Luc Audrain:** Will you have a consensus call in the CG?  

**Dave Cramer:** ask for a vote in CG meeting  

**George Kerscher:** where to put comments ?  

**Dave Cramer:** in CG, try to track issues and get consensus  

**Luc Audrain:** there was a question on the mailing list about epub tests  

### 2. EPUB Test Suite
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think billk answered the query  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I'm not sure I agree with billk's answer  
… there are two test suites right now, epubtest.org and epubcheck (?)  
… we haven't made an official decision  
… has DAISY taken over epubtest.org?  
… it's certainly not part of PWG  

**George Kerscher:** as we know, epubtest.org was a joint effort with BISG, DAISY, and IDPF  
… DAISY is moving forward briskly with a11y testing  
… but the mainstream testing is not updated or maintained  
… we don't own the domain, and we're not paying for hosting, although we could take that over  
… we're still trying to sort it out  
… BISG doesn't know what their approach would be  
… IEEE is interested in these kinds of testing activities  

**Ivan Herman:** IEEE?  

**George Kerscher:** they're using EPUB for education and interactivity and need to do testing  
… nothing formal, but we're leaving the door open  
… DAISY has been told to move forward briskly with a11y, and don't let other things stop that  

**Tzviya Siegman:** We're all familiar with the problems of epubtest  
… has anyone looked into automated testing?  

**Dave Cramer:** conversation 2 years with Geoffrey Sneddon about tests for CSS  

> *Luc Audrain:* … need to continue for REC track

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** part of my perspective on why we didn't get farther is that it's hard to maintain and hard to automate  
… it's very subjective and visual  
… particularly when you're talking about reading systems  
… and when there are differences between sideloading and ingestion  

**Ivan Herman:** from w3c process point of view, there is no obligation for automated testing  
… testing is an obligation, as is a report, but it doesn't have to go through automated test harnesses  

**Luc Audrain:** is that clear for you, tzviya  

**Tzviya Siegman:** it's clear that there's not a home for non-a11y tests  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we should ask what Ric is looking for  
… we're not clear on why he's frustrated  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can contact Ric  

### 3. RFP on epubcheck
{: #section3}

**Tzviya Siegman:** we have responses to the RFP. review commitee is looking at them  
… the reviewers are Liza, Tobias, Brady, and Romain  
… we will meet with them on August 9  
… we want them to make a recommendation to the steering committee  
… by the following week  
… we will decide by the end of August  
… we get a rec from them by aug 15  
… decide on the 24th  
… announce on 27th  

**Luc Audrain:** are we still getting proposals?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** no, it closed on the 15th of July.  
… we received three proposals  
… the schedules are really different  

**Tzviya Siegman:** they are three very different proposals  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** are you anticipating a fourth offer that hasn't been submitted?  

**Luc Audrain:** no, we were expecting something from EDRLab, but they decided not to  
… we are on schedule.  

**George Kerscher:** is there any thought about negotiating, or is it just accept/reject?  

**Luc Audrain:** I think it should be possible to negotiate  
… we do want epubcheck to work with epub 3.2 as soon as possible  
… we want 3.2 and epubcheck and epub2 sunset to be released at the same time, by the end of the year  
… epub2 sunset doc is stable, we should propose to the PBG  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do we have any thoughts about guidance for the committee about how to evaluate the proposals  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I would prefer not to give guidance; that's why we have a review committee  
… We chose them because of their knowledge  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** my only worry is about them choosing something that we can't maintain long-term  

**Garth Conboy:** the proposals do talk about this  
… and the committee does have the resources to evaluate that  

**Garth Conboy:** re: negotiations; we shouldn't argue about price; we could negotiate on milestones etc  

**Rachel Comerford:** I agree with garth and tzviya  
… what I see from this group is a recommendation  
… so we can take their feedback and decide as a committee  
… it's ok if we have different priorities than the committee, but we shouldn't try to influence things before then  

**Luc Audrain:** I have confidence in the committee  

### 4. epubcheck fundraising
{: #section4}

**Luc Audrain:** we have a document with language. any comments? We need to comment before tonight.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* no, this is not the first draft, luc

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** i want to follow up on the email about maintenance  
… the way I read it, it doesn't look like we're asking for a year over year commitment  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we should look to the future for a maintenance fund  
… the proposals we have are not long-term  
… I would love long-term commitments for funding  
… maybe we want to change this for a long-term commitment?  

**Luc Audrain:** I just wanted to say that I didn't feel like the long-term or short term was clear  

**George Kerscher:** looking forward to WP and EPUB4, I think we're going to need the equivalent of epubcheck in that space  

**Dave Cramer:** not ask for long term money before we can prove it’s done  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I agree with Dave, maybe we should put something in doc that we want to fund the next X amount of time--2 years?  
… we will look for ongoing support in the future  

**Luc Audrain:** that's what I wanted to say  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do we agree we want two years?  

**Luc Audrain:** I agree  
… we should say that the fundraising is for an effort that lasts for two years.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** can someone propose language in the doc?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'll do it  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I need to give this to W3C comm team so they can prepare website  

**George Kerscher:** there's no mention of $1k  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** maybe a mention of $1k and say that no amount is too small  

**Luc Audrain:** should we change or leave as-is?  

**George Kerscher:** i don't feel strongly  

**George Kerscher:** are we going to post a thanks on a web site? Should that be in the doc?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** that's a good suggestion  
… "contributors will be acknowledged on the epubcheck home page"  

**Luc Audrain:** it should be added  
… I had another topic but we already talked about epub2 sunset doc. I'll look at beginning of next week and propose to BG  
… do you have any objection to look at this once more?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** it's ok to look again  

**Luc Audrain:** one more round, and we'll speak to PBG in two-ish weeks  
… a report from the road map task force  

### 5. Misc
{: #section5}

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/wpub/](https://www.w3.org/TR/wpub/)

**Ivan Herman:** the PWG has posted a new update of wpub, including manifest with schema.org  
… we should announce in BG  

**Ivan Herman:** then we can put this on the agenda for Tuesday  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there should be an introduction  

**Garth Conboy:** as we talked about the draft fundraising doc, we have 45k already raised  
… we should ask people on this call if we can get some more commitments  

**Luc Audrain:** I'll send an agenda for PBG on Monday morning French time  
… thanks everyone  

**RRSAgent:** draft minutes  

**RRSAgent:** make logs public  

---
