---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-02-23
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-02-23
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-02-23

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2018Feb/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/02/23-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Bill Kasdorf, Luc Audrain, George Kerscher, Ivan Herman, Dave Cramer, Tzviya Siegman, Bill McCoy, Garth Conboy, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Karen Myers

**Regrets:** Rachel Comerford, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Rick Johnson

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Luc Audrain:** I trust everyone is receiving emails from the new publishing SC mailing list  

**Ivan Herman:** I updated the charter text, and turned it into proper HTML  
… on the BG home page, the chairs have been updated  
… I have updated the internal database entry for the steering committee so the ML is up to date  
… it contains all the people on the SC, plus Ralph and Karen  

**Luc Audrain:** thank you  

**Ivan Herman:** the BG membership is different, as people can remove themselves  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I just wanted to point out that Dave scribes every meeting; we should have a scribe rotation so we take turns  

**Luc Audrain:** we already tried a chair rotation :)  

### 1. What resources to use?
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** I sent an agenda; we've started the first topic  
… are we OK using Github for BG?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I thought we weren't for the BG  

**Bill Kasdorf:** that's what I thought too  

**Luc Audrain:** it should be PBGSC?  

**Ivan Herman:** there are two things  
… yes, we agreed for BG work, we would use Google Docs and not Github  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* If we are going to use google docs, let's create a folder so it's easier to keep track

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** we have had a [github repo](https://github.com/w3c/publ-bg) for a long time, and that can be used in three ways  
… one is that it has a wiki  
… available for the SC and the BG  
… we could use it for SC documents  
… the same repo now is set up in a way that it produces more flexible [public website](https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/)  
… we can add documents that are seen on the web properly, we can keep it more fresh  
… that's why I set it up--I cloned the PWG web page style  

**Luc Audrain:** tzviya, you mentioned we should have a folder for google docs?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** someone should create a folder, and share the folder with the group. It makes it much easier to keep track  
… create a PBG folder, then share the folder with the group  

**Bill Kasdorf:** that sounds good  

> *liisamk >t:* clarify- is the GitHub to help us manage this page and the wiki associated? [https://www.w3.org/community/publishingbg/](https://www.w3.org/community/publishingbg/)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I put a link into IRC  
… is that the page you're referencing?  

**Ivan Herman:** no, that's the problem. That page is difficult to modify.  
… it can only be modified by W3T  
… what I have is this one: https://w3c.github.io/publ-bg/  
… that is governed by github; we could put in redirects  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** can we link this from that page?  

**Ivan Herman:** yes, we can  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we should add to group communications a link to the google docs folder  

**Luc Audrain:** so this would be the main page for the PBG for all docs  
… who creates the Google Drive Folder?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** anyone can  

**Bill McCoy:** we can get rid of the other publishing page?  

**Ivan Herman:** the old page, I don't know if it can be auto-redirected  
… the other possibility is to put a link on the old page, saying this is where we do the real work  

**Bill McCoy:** that's OK  
… my concern is that if people create a drive folder it may disappear  
… it might need to be done by a w3c account  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Bill McCoy:** what we want is a w3c Google enterprise account  

**Ivan Herman:** the problem is, Google docs cannot be accessed from China  
… so W3M would be wary of having any official W3C docs that are not available to everyone in the world  

**Bill McCoy:** I'll look into it  

**George Kerscher:** happily, a11y for Google docs has improved, so now I can read and edit :)  

**Tzviya Siegman:** until we have an enterprise account, an individual with a stable address could create the folder; then we could switch  
… I really want to avoid loose documents  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to Tzviya

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'll set it up  

### 2. EPUB Roadmap TF
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** I've been thinking about the process for the EPUB Road Map task force, with the help of Garth and Dave  
… the first question is the number of the new release, and the CG has reached consensus on EPUB 3.2  
… as the SC, do we agree?  
… and second, do we agree with the overall principles at stake in new revision, such as compatibility with 3.0.1  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** do we think it's a good idea to move in this direction?  

**Bill McCoy:** point of order, the new SC no longer has decision making powers  
… the question should be posed to the BG on Tuesday  
… this group should restrict itself to figuring out what tasks belong to what groups, and to work on agenda for BG  

**Garth Conboy:** I'm pro 3.2 and I vote  
… I think the task force should meet quickly  

**Bill McCoy:** maybe a meeting isn't even needed  

**Garth Conboy:** we did form a task force, we should actually have a meeting :)  
… we can bring it to the BG, and hopefully they will bless us  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do we have any sense that anyone will push back  

**Garth Conboy:** makoto is pushing this  

> *Luc Audrain:* Dave: consensus in CG Over 3.2

> *Luc Audrain:* … probably technical disputes, natural and healthy

**Luc Audrain:** the ISO question was discussed with Makoto, and 3.2 is OK  

**George Kerscher:** Makoto is good with this, and it will trigger EPUB a11y 1.1 work to move forward  
… I spoke to Avneesh earlier; he will email people to start  

**Luc Audrain:** the idea is to set up a call for the road map task force, to present this plan to BG on Tuesday, and announce on Tuesday that the task force would meet next Thursday  
… it would hopefully adopt the overall idea of 3.2  
… and ask for the CG to proceed  
… the next step is that the CG does its work  
… and as Dave said, disputes on tech details :)  
… and after a certain amount of time, there would be a new 3.2 spec adopted by CG  
… as a BG we need to endorse this spec  
… we will have discussions, and then if we agree as a BG we could have something like a CR  
… and when this last call for consensus is made, then I don't know if formal objections could be made  
… then this new spec would have a status -- community group note? But it would be the official latest version of EPUB  

> *Luc Audrain:* Dave: first EPUB spec under W3C

> *Luc Audrain:* … so do good job more than quick work

> *Luc Audrain:* … see Jiminy issues in existing spec

**Garth Conboy:** I would love to see real progress by Berlin  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1000, dauwhe

**Dave Cramer:** we should do good work, and deal with interop  

**Garth Conboy:** I think it's important to have progress in a post-merger world  

**Ivan Herman:** the point of Dave is that this is the first time we publish something as W3C, so we should do it well  

**Dave Cramer:** it is a community group note  

**Ivan Herman:** that is correct  

**Luc Audrain:** any comments?  
… that's the plan, we should explain this in the next BG meeting, and have a call of the task force  
… we cover the numbering, the principles, the rationale.  
… any objections of a call on Thursday, March 1?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** you could announce today that it's on Tuesday :)  

**Luc Audrain:** that's Tuesday, February 27  

**Garth Conboy:** could we do before the BG call?  
… a way to move faster  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to moving faster

> *Tzviya Siegman:* it is probably better for Japan too

**Garth Conboy:** I could do 9 or 10 EST that day  

**Luc Audrain:** 10am in NYC?  

**Ivan Herman:** who should be there?  

**Garth Conboy:** people who signed up for the task force in the doc  

**George Kerscher:** which task force?  

**Luc Audrain:** EPUB 3 road map  

**Bill McCoy:** I can recommend that you send an email to entire BG, with a [header]  

**Luc Audrain:** I see dave, garth, tzviya, julian, rick, matteus, and makoto  
… it will be hard for Makoto  

**Garth Conboy:** I can be his proxy :)  

### 3. A11y task force
{: #section3}

**George Kerscher:** we have the a11y guidelines from IDPF  
… done by MG  
… they have not been updated  
… we now have the ACE knowledgebase  
… so we're trying to maintain two sets of guidelines  
… we would like to either redirect that URL to the ACE kb  
… or put a link at the beginning saying it's no longer maintained  
… but we can't update the old site  
… so we're asking the SC to endorse one of those approaches  
… and put that to the BG for consensus  

**Ivan Herman:** I am not sure I understood  

**George Kerscher:** this is IDPF guidelines, so this is BG  

**Bill McCoy:** maintenance of idpf website is a w3t issue  
… we can obsolete and point to latest information  
… I assume you don't want to host on W3C  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://idpf.github.io/a11y-guidelines/](https://idpf.github.io/a11y-guidelines/) this is the outdated site in question

**George Kerscher:** DAISY had Matt write the O'Reilly book, and the guidelines were extracted from the book  
… if we want to move stuff to W3C in the future, that'd be great, but for now pointing to the KB is what we should achieve  

**Bill McCoy:** who owns the copyright?  
… are they IDPF copyright?  

**George Kerscher:** they're on the IDPF website, so I think it's IDPF copyright  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* it is IDPF Copyright

**Bill McCoy:** so you might need rights from IDPF  

**George Kerscher:** I don't know.  
… the ideas are based on W3C WCAG standards, and point to them  
… the ideas originate with W3C  
… I don't know if there was any exact language that was taken from the IDPF website  
… I'll check with Matt  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I'm not clear how this discussion relates to EPUB a11y 1.0  
… I hope we're not talking about abandoning that  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Tzviya Siegman:* it's also available at [https://www.w3.org/Submission/2017/SUBM-epub-a11y-20170125/](https://www.w3.org/Submission/2017/SUBM-epub-a11y-20170125/)

**George Kerscher:** no, we're not abandoning it  
… and with EPUB 3.2, we're going to update EPUB a11y to version 1.1, and submit to ISO  

**Luc Audrain:** tzviya put up a link to this doc  

**Tzviya Siegman:** about transferring the daisy KB  
… W3C doesn't do documentation like this  
… I had a conversation with Matt about that  
… Dan Applequist of the TAG suggested some of this move to MDN  
… aside from issues of copyright, he pointed out that most of what's in Daisy KB is mostly not epub-specific; it's best practices on writing HTML  
… we could call it W3C accessible publishing documentation  
… the w3c doesn't have a logical home for this  

**George Kerscher:** DAISY would be happy to move to W3C space whenever appropriate  

**Bill Kasdorf:** thanks for pointing out that epub a11y has been moved as member submission  
… what should we do about the IDPF guidelines? people are linking to it.  

**Luc Audrain:** how do we move forward?  

**George Kerscher:** I'll talk to Matt, and have him check with BillM about © issues  

**Luc Audrain:** there is also the a11y techniques doc  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-cg/guides/epub-a11y-faq.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-cg/guides/epub-a11y-faq.html)

**George Kerscher:** there's the techniques doc, which should be moved  

**Luc Audrain:** the link to the techniques in the EPUB a11y points to IDPF website  

**George Kerscher:** maybe we should bring that to the CG  

**Luc Audrain:** that's good  

**Luc Audrain:** anything else we should think about? Is it clear?  

**George Kerscher:** so this will become an agenda item for the BG  

**Bill McCoy:** the roadmap task force should think about where the 3.2 note goes  

**Luc Audrain:** have we settled how often we have a call?  

**Bill McCoy:** can someone send an email to the BG with an agenda?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's do agenda via email after this call  
… important thing is to get announcement about task force  

**Bill McCoy:** and let's not forget epubcheck financing  

---
