---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-04-06
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-04-06
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-04-06

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/04/06-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Bill Kasdorf, Dave Cramer, Ivan Herman, Luc Audrain, George Kerscher, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Daihei Shiohama, Garth Conboy

**Regrets:** Bill McCoy, Rick Johnson

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Luc Audrain:** regrets for next PBG meeting  

### 1. Meeting timing
{: #section1}

**Garth Conboy:** there's some confusion on when these meetings happen  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, I wanted to raise this point  
… and having meetings for both euro and asia times  
… we could do Asia time every three meetings  
… others could be noon US  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** every fourth meeting--every two months we have an APAC-timed meeting  

**Garth Conboy:** should we have a meeting at all due to LBF?  

### 2. Next meeting agenda (and timing of the Asian meeting)
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** with LBF next week, and an ISO meeting already  

**Luc Audrain:** ISO call is on Monday  

**Garth Conboy:** we could do call on the 17th if we want  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the cadence was to make the PBG meetings after the SC meetings  
… so the question is should we go ahead even though attendance might be sparse  

**Luc Audrain:** not sure if there will be conclusions from ISO discussion on Monday  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm sure it won't :)  
… but on Monday we perhaps can outline the alternatives  
… and the choice should be made by the larger group  

**Luc Audrain:** the idea is that the meeting would result in action items for each option  

**Bill Kasdorf:** the discussion should be via email with all the members, not just people who called in  

**George Kerscher:** on Monday, I hope we eliminate some of the five options  
… and we hope some options diverge further down the road  
… 3.2 is needed no matter what  
… so I think we can get further down the path  

**Luc Audrain:** do we still set up a PBG meeting on Tuesday?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** ???  

**Ivan Herman:** I don't want to postpone a meeting. it's confusing.  
… keep to the regular schedule  

**Garth Conboy:** the coming meetings would be (list of dates)  
… when do we want to do the first Asia-time meeting?  
… April 10 would be Noon EDT  

**Luc Audrain:** I would propose May 8 for the first APAC meeting  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** 7PM EDT  

**Garth Conboy:** every 4th meeting is APAC time, right?  
… I'll work with the calendar and send invitations  

**Luc Audrain:** I put dates in my 3/28 email  
… I checked with Laurent; he said we can use the EDRLab conference line for the APAC-timed calls  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** for this meeting, the SC meeting, Bill and Rick have reported not having this on the calendar  

**Bill Kasdorf:** it's confusing because of my transitional state  

**Garth Conboy:** this one should be in people's calendars  

**Ivan Herman:** it is in my calendar  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** anything to report on 3.2?  

**Garth Conboy:** Matt is engaged, things are happening on Github  

**Dave Cramer:** CG is having a call next Thursday  

**Luc Audrain:** I've started to review PWG infoset for WP, and my first PR of my life :)  

**Ivan Herman:** that discussion should be somewhere else  

**Luc Audrain:** it should be an issue?  

**Ivan Herman:** yes  

**Luc Audrain:** I have other questions about the existing text, but I can make them issue  
… s  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we have report from ISO, we have a report on scheduling meetings, we have a 3.2 update  
… what else should we talk about?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** while the initiative sounded straightforward, it became a more daunting task. So only five people are signed up so far.  

#### 2.1. Workshop in Tokyo
{: #section2-1}

**Ivan Herman:** Daihei, you had a discussion with BIllM about the workshop in Japan  

**Daihei Shiohama:** there will be a meeting next week  
… Bill M's email issues and the responses, they will discuss that  
… I have all the information, and I can share the outcome  

**Ivan Herman:** this would be a good topic for the APAC-time call  
… the workshop will be in Tokyo  
… so it will be mostly people from East Asia  

**Daihei Shiohama:** when is that call?  

**Ivan Herman:** May 8  
… by then, hopefully BillM will get this through W3M (W3C management)  

**Daihei Shiohama:** My only concern is that it may conflict with holidays  
… OK. We can discuss then, and I can share any updates I get before then  

#### 2.2. Reading system testing
{: #section2-2}

**George Kerscher:** I posted an invitation for people to crowdsource testing of reading systems, and I can report on the fabulous response  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes please!  
… who is responding?  

**George Kerscher:** individuals, companys in the a11y field...  
… a lot in the US and Canada, but also asia, australia, and europe  
… I think I have 45 right now!  

#### 2.3. Epubcheck
{: #section2-3}

**Bill Kasdorf:** what about epubcheck?  

**Ivan Herman:** tzviya has been on vacation for the whole week  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Tzviya and BillM are on holiday, so there's been no progress on the RFP or the funding  

**Bill Kasdorf:** do we have a pricing structure, tiered pricing?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we haven't nailed this down yet  

**Bill Kasdorf:** RFP is for developers?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes  
… one thing we could do on Tuesday is  
… starting to get top five lists of things to fix in epubcheck  

### 3. epub:type, general topic on extensions
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we could get that both from reading systems and from publishers/content creators  
… Tzviya and I have put in some requirements  
… one of them has escalated  
… we have wanted to indicate that an image is historical  
… this could be useful for a11y  
… if you have limited sight, it could be useful to know something is blurry  
… and now one RS wants reading-system-specific tagging  
… and we don't want that  
… this is an opportunity for a lovely trade  
… I convinced Amazon yesterday to respect aria-roles and epub:type  
… but I don't have something for that  

**Garth Conboy:** epub:type="blurry"  

**Luc Audrain:** there are discussions about role being only for a11y, and epub:type is for semantic structure  
… it may be that Ace in the future checks that the role for image is on image tag  
… you can't put cover role on section because it overrides the native sectioning role  
… things are complicated  
… we need structural semantics for publishing  
… a11y rules are different  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I was going to bring up a related question  
… people are saying because @role is for a11y  
… nobody uses epub:type; it has no results in implementations  
… so they're saying don't use epub:type  

**Garth Conboy:** footnotes are done with epub:type  
… apple and google do that  

**Ivan Herman:** epub:type cannot work with HTML5 html serialization  
… we will have to find a long-term solution  
… is there something on the F2F agenda?  
… whatever we do there, I don't think the current group is chartered for that  
… we need changes to HTML, a new attribute with standard values  
… . we either need to have @role available for semantics, or a new attribute  
… but epub:type can't outlive EPUB 3  

**Luc Audrain:** We do need a way to preserve semantics  

**Ivan Herman:** this community needs to make the point  
… there is a strong need for a community to extend HTML  
… there are tools, techniques, ways  
… it's fuzzy what's valid and what isn't  
… that whole issue of extending HTML is of interest to many communities  
… if the BG worked on this, or something...  
… this has been on my mind for a long time  
… this community needs structural information that's not tied to ARIA  
… the browser manufacturers, we can't expect them to solve all the miseries of the world  
… so some decentralization is needed  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I need something short-term  
… so we may need something retailer-specific  

**Ivan Herman:** in parallel to that, if the BG came up with clear and strong business needs  
… that were well-documented, that would help a lot  
… "we need it" is not good enough  

**Bill Kasdorf:** scholarly publishing has universal vocabs, but there's a giant case for it  

**Ivan Herman:** if the BG could come up with a document with the business cases on what is needed in how  
… that could be a starting point  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we'll try to get some buy-in on Tuesday  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, this is on the F2F agenda  

**Ivan Herman:** we won't be in position to do too much in the working group  

**Bill Kasdorf:** and there won't be any scholars there due to SSP  

**Ivan Herman:** Wiley will be there  

**Dave Cramer:** if we brought this up in WICG, they'd just tell us to use something, and see if it gets traction  

**Ivan Herman:** yes, but we do need the arguments too  
… it has to be well documented  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the other thing I want to raise  
… what is the shortlist of epub:type and aria role values we expect reading systems to support  

**George Kerscher:** should we also be talking about how that support is manifested?  

**Dave Cramer:** yes  

**Luc Audrain:** what do you mean?  

**George Kerscher:** if you have semantics that this is a glossary  
… you go to the back of the book you have a heading "glossary". what does the reading system do?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there's no consistency  

**Bill Kasdorf:** the behaviour can be controlled by HTML markup  

**George Kerscher:** if I want a hot key to go to the glossary, you want to use the semantics to take you to the glossary  

**Bill Kasdorf:** you want to go to a term  

**George Kerscher:** sometimes I want to just go to the glossary itself  

**Ivan Herman:** let's not solve the issue now  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** discussing this at a business level helps  
… and it helps focus the requirements-gathering so it is more tangible  
… it would be easier if we knew what people want to make things more consistent  
… sounds like we have a good agenda  

**Luc Audrain:** any other business?  

**Garth Conboy:** complicated calendar stuff  

**Ivan Herman:** stupid computers are stupid :)  

---
