---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-11-02
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-11-02
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-11-02

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/525C681B-A16F-4417-85B2-8435615C1B7F@penguinrandomhouse.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/11/02-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Dave Cramer, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Ivan Herman, Daihei Shiohama, Luc Audrain, Ralph Swick, Rick Johnson, Wendy Reid, Bill Kasdorf, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Tzviya Siegman, George Kerscher, Jeff Jaffe, Garth Conboy, Rachel Comerford

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Luc Audrain, Ralph Swick

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *genda:* [https://www.w3.org/mid/525C681B-A16F-4417-85B2-8435615C1B7F@penguinrandomhouse.com](https://www.w3.org/mid/525C681B-A16F-4417-85B2-8435615C1B7F@penguinrandomhouse.com)

### 1. Recap on the TPAC and email discussions
{: #section1}

**Wendy Reid:** blog post  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://t.co/HWFXkhVEsv](https://t.co/HWFXkhVEsv)

> *Ralph Swick:* -> [https://www.w3.org/blog](https://www.w3.org/blog) post "Publishing at TPAC 2018"/2018/11/publishing-at-tpac-2018/ Wendy's blog post "Publishing at TPAC 2018"

**Wendy Reid:** 2 days very productive  
… use case minimal viable product  
… boundaries defined  
… i18n, JSON-LD and schemas  

> *Luc Audrain:* .. 2nd day ; what to do with EPUB 3.2

**Wendy Reid:** agreement bring EPUB 3.2 on REC Track, in  the PWG  
… still working on WP, and PWP for audiobooks  
… push EPUB4 later  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** CG working on testing, build the features set for testing  

**Dave Cramer:** possibility to move EPUB3.2 to REC Track  
… address the pub industry,  
… questions on ISO  

**Tzviya Siegman:** rewrite the charter to make this possible  
… one proposal is to bring PEUB 3.2 in the PWG  
… what happens to WP  
… doing WP as a living standard, and address audiobooks and comics  
… present business needs  
… make spec by modules  

**George Kerscher:** epubtest.org, will it be used?  

**Dave Cramer:** decouple any effort for testing EPUB 3.2 testing from epubtest.org  
… general structure is not what we need for this effort  

**George Kerscher:** neither for a11y  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 dauwhe

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 dauwhe

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** XWP as a living standard  
… audiobook as a module  

**Ralph Swick:** interested in Tzviya proposal of continuously evolving standard  
… « evegreen standard »  
… very important to describe what it means  
… cautions to use the term living without before providing definition  

**Dave Cramer:** that idea is to evolve from browser providing some implementation  
… not sure it applies to WP  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the goal of the evergreen is to constantly updating std  
… suggestion some specific for audiobook, comics  
… publish modules and in the future WP  

> *Ralph Swick:* ["modules" -- ala CSS ?]

**Garth Conboy:** concept evergreen for WP doesn’t work, but headstart on audiobook  
… copy in a profile for audiobook, comics, that form the longer term WP dev  
… agree with tzviya  

**Dave Cramer:** WP work with audiobook, manga and such: concerns to move with those in WP context  
… make decision with impacts  
… the need for today’s will it be the global WP need?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** recognize Dave’s concern  
… but the best place to discuss is in the WG itself  
… These are tech issues not SC  

> *Dave Cramer:* +1 to jeff

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We have a lot of work to do to let everyone know on TPAC discussions  
… moving on testing and epubcheck to get transparency on features implemented or not  
… people nervous on what will change  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Jeff

**George Kerscher:** the audiobook spec as a WP is fine,  
… but real need is to have audiobooks downloadable  
… concerned by the packaging aspect  

**Wendy Reid:** for the packaging, no solution today, PWP in the end,  
… still closer from WP than from 3.2, that’s for the WG to decide  
… agree for the packaging issue  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** role for the BG to play in requirements?  

**Wendy Reid:** need for BG input for users and implementers  

> *George Kerscher:* +1 to needing BG input on audio books.

**Wendy Reid:** talk to APA to get information  

### 2. future work on EPUB 3.2
{: #section2}

**Ivan Herman:** running ahead in details  
… not yet decided: what we do with EPUB3.2  
… if it goes to REC or not  
… whatever model we use is a detail  
… 3.2 REC yes or no is to be decided  

**Ivan Herman:** back to original thing, the question is for the WG  
… what is the next step?  
… how we decide to go for a REC track  
… chartering will no be easy  
… how do we do to get there?  
… REC track has to be answered asap  

**Luc Audrain:** we identified two parallel tasks  
… questions on features of EPub 3.2, testing, bug gathering  
… collect everything we know about EPUB 3.2 issues  
… it will be necessary if we go REC track to have this  
… and it will be useful to the community even if we do not go REC track  
… we can work on this in the Community Group in parallel with work on rechartering the WG  
… what becomes PWP, EPUB4; to be addressed in a new charter  
… I have the impression that the TPAC conversations lead to the possibility of working in parallel  

**Ivan Herman:** I almost agree  
… starting now on testing 100% ok  
… whatever happens, it will be good to do it now  
… problem on chartering process, it will modify the how WG will operate  
… doing that makes sense only if there is a clear will for the community for this to happen  
… need a stronger statement from the BG  
… unconformable, mailing list discussion don’t seem to bring consensus on this, personal reaction  

**Jeff Jaffe:** it seems to me there was a consensus  
… WG scale of deliveries with different time scales make sense  
… point of ivan for a clear signal from the BG, that 3.2 on REC track is a priority  

> *Ralph Swick:* [... and will benefit the Web by @@ ]

**Jeff Jaffe:** I agree with Ivan, the meeting on Tuesday of the BG  
… if the BG says it solves business needs  
… then it’s a go  

**Rick Johnson:** read the TPAC minutes, very excited, 3.2 potential to provide great stability  
… change to make people stop EPUB2,  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to RickJ

**Rick Johnson:** very orderly process to move WP  
… need to convince the industry to get there  
… very positive direction  
… I do agree that discussion until now was ok, but stuck in details  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* and addressing the details are technical issues, which is the WG's role

**Luc Audrain:** the BG hasn't yet officially said it supports EPUB 3.2 on the Rec track  
… we need to bring the vision of the publishing industry; we have to let them think about this  
… present the pros and cons  
… we are aware that some issues need to be solved but the general view is positive  
… the idea is for the BG to present this path as positive and gather reactions  
… do a call for consensus  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the next BG call will present pros and cons  
… discussion showed what is worrying some of us  
… what is the timing for EPUB3.2  

**Tzviya Siegman:** good idea for a document for pros and cons  
… in general with spec, TR  
… when epubcheck will be available, EPUB3.2 will start to be used  
… part of the testing phase  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** W3C work with REC, last phase work is often on details  
… when, in a W3C group we go to a CR, the tech work has been done, now the testing has to start  
… tech job on 3.2 is done, we need to go one testing as it is,  
… not the intention to do something new:  

**Dave Cramer:** precedent in W3C for a CG report to go to REC track  
… need to clear that it is a stage in the journey  
… not something new, but not tie our hand  
… keep on principle on interoperability  

**George Kerscher:** +1 to Dave  
… start testing in CG asap  
… bring that body of knowledge with us when we go to REC Track  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Makoto's argument, something pulled out when we go to REC Track  

**Dave Cramer:** extremely confident to find implementation for all  
… it is theoretical argument more than practical  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* almost by definition, if people have implemented features that means they will NOT be removed

> *Bill Kasdorf:* lots of work in Japan as well

### 3. Epubcheck funding
{: #section3}

**Rachel Comerford:** google doc with couple of lines for contact to reach organization  

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iAGhd99aVhXAUCQwITWZwAHARQbnSet9IUFTj_DbqdM/edit](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iAGhd99aVhXAUCQwITWZwAHARQbnSet9IUFTj_DbqdM/edit) just in case

**Rachel Comerford:** staying in constant contact to everyone one  
… encouraging the use the spreadsheets to personal relations to companies  

**Rick Johnson:** donation form CoreSource and message to all CoreSource customers  
… also from Ingram  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** TPI conversation, high level conversation  
… send a draft here  

> *Rick Johnson:* I will be on a flight during the BG call on Tuesday, and unable to join.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** BG actively engaging in mail this week, advantage to partner with local org  
… APL in Japan, EDRLab in Europe  
… also with BISG  

### 4. BG meeting preparation
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** draft something before the BG call  

**Ivan Herman:** the first question is the 3.2 question  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** also on audio for the WG  

**Ivan Herman:** secondary question  

**George Kerscher:** BG call to emphasize how to fill the business needs  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

---
