---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-03-09
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-03-09
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-03-09

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2018Mar/0002.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/09-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Jun-ichi Yoshii, George Kerscher, Bill McCoy, Bill Kasdorf, Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Rachel Comerford, Tzviya Siegman, Daihei Shiohama

**Regrets:** Dave Cramer, Rick Johnson

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Tzviya Siegman, Luc Audrain

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUB 3.2
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** We gave the BG 2 weeks to review the EPUB 3.2 document, and we hope that we will come to consensus on Tuesday  
… Should we send a 72 hour CfC? Or is sufficient to tell CG to proceed?  

**Ivan Herman:** we should do CfC  

**Bill McCoy:** opinion on how the CG would report to the BG after endorsement  
… is there any form?  

**Ivan Herman:** there is a way to do that  
… we will ask Matt  
… take another report as a model  
… Like JSON 1.1  

> *Bill McCoy:* [https://json-ld.org/spec/latest/json-ld/](https://json-ld.org/spec/latest/json-ld/)

**Bill McCoy:** put a line like « Approved by the PBG… »  

**Tzviya Siegman:** keep in mind last Tuesday proposal from Ivan  

**Subopic:** ISO  

**George Kerscher:** a11y standardization moving forward in parallel with EPUB 3.2  
… wonderful France will be contributing in SC34  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I believe Cristina said that Italy would follow France's lead

**George Kerscher:** any other people in US?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** no longer in NISO  

**George Kerscher:** should we get in touch with NISO?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** PRH is a member of NISO  

**Ivan Herman:** finalize EPUB 3.2 and move it ISO?  

**Luc Audrain:** Yes  

**Ivan Herman:** ISO has it’s own terminology  
… These two should coordinate in a format in ISO « format » to reduce work  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Francis Cave in PBG?  

**Luc Audrain:** I will raise the question to him  

**George Kerscher:** check for any copyright problem for kb IDPF a11y guidelines  
… 2 sites are independent, and there is know cut and paste from the former work  
… 2 options : move IDPF site down or say « this is no longer maintain » and redirect to the new siet  

**Bill McCoy:** we plan to update the EPUB A11Y 1.0.  
… New one would be a W3C document as 1.1  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* The other issue was any IP concerns wrt IDPF content

**Bill McCoy:** W3C is not abandoning EPUB3 a11y but is committed to EPUB3 a11y standardization  

**Rachel Comerford:** we take advantage that this was available in IDPF, and move to W3C  

### 2. IDPF Web site information
{: #section2}

**Tzviya Siegman:** IDPF best practice should have asap a banner to go the DAISY knowledge base  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 to tzviya's suggestion

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Tzviya. Same for the A11y 1.0 document

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to Liisa

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Yes but I'm concerned about citations to the IPDF site instead of the proper W3C site

> *Tzviya Siegman:* the a11y metadata is all completely out of date

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** a notice is not sufficient as it is accessed through detailed pages  

**Bill McCoy:** IDPF site ha legacy stuff still valid  
… migrate the current level stuff to a W3C repository and put a banner on IDPF  

**Bill McCoy:** people should go a W3C or DAISY site  

**Tzviya Siegman:** reason to a11y guideline is the doc people use the most  
… starts with that so that people doesn't do inaccurate coding because it hasn’t been updated  

**Bill McCoy:** use a11y as a laboratory for moving to W3C  

**Bill McCoy:** I volunteer to make so  

**George Kerscher:** Matt can help you on this  
… decision: put in a11y guidelines information to redirect to the kb in DAISY  
… best practices are in dev in the CG  

**George Kerscher:** has to be approved by the PBG  

**Bill McCoy:** an agenda item for next PBG call  
… 2mn topic on the DPUB summit  

> *Bill McCoy:* [https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/03/digital-publishing-summit-in-berlin-16th-and-17th-of-may/](https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/03/digital-publishing-summit-in-berlin-16th-and-17th-of-may/)

**Bill McCoy:** see blog post from Ivan  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** epubcheck funding bar ?  
… we have hours from RicWright  
… 160h/month, 90$/h  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** proposal to leave the site with every page on a11y marked. what for other pages?  
… like the forum  

**George Kerscher:** it is a good other place to direct people to the CG and other W3C group  

**Ivan Herman:** separate discussion on that because of instead « killing » it, keep the IDPF site as part of the W3C activity  
… remove thing on member, but keep it as it is natural for people to go there  
… it’ worth  discussion with communication W3C people  
… there are some practicalities like name of IDPF…  
… more straightforward, why not keeping it?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** a11y stuff is pressing, the forum should be kept alive  
… could be in W3C  
… form should not be ignored, legacy documentation archived  

**Rachel Comerford:** i’m willing to help  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I wouldn't take anything down right now

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what about membership pages?  

**George Kerscher:** serving customers better  
… we can’t close down the site for now  

### 3. Misc
{: #section3}

**Ivan Herman:** warning on calling time for Asia and Europe  

**Bill Kasdorf:** nominate Dahei and Yoshi as outstanding members  

**George Kerscher:** find proper time for people to participate  
… like for the affordance TF  

**Tzviya Siegman:** one of the chair is in California  

**Luc Audrain:** agenda item for specific call time for Asia  

---
