---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-04-20
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-04-20
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-04-20

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/04/20-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Bill McCoy, Luc Audrain, Tzviya Siegman, Ivan Herman, Dave Cramer, Rick Johnson, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Rachel Comerford, Garth Conboy, Bill Kasdorf, Jun-ichi Yoshii, George Kerscher

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:**

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Epubcheck “ask”
{: #section1}

**Bill McCoy:** I sent that email after missing some calls  
… I wasn't sure if we'd quantified what we wanted people to pay  
… we wanted to start penciling in people for amounts  
… Karen talked to overdrive at ebookcraft  
… we need to take the next steps  
… how much will we ask for?  
… I didn't get an answer, so it's still an open question  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we should take a proposal to the PBG  
… Bill, you had an idea on how to structure?  

**Bill McCoy:** it was based on previous conversation  
… 100K is too much  
… 1k isn't enough  
… so we're in the 5k to 20k range  
… we should ask double what we expect  
… that's what led to the numbers in the email  
… we need to make an ask to find out what the market would bear  
… we should ask on the high side, but within reason  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* we need to define tiers of sponsorship

**Tzviya Siegman:** we do have the estimates for hour  
… I thought we were putting together an RFP  
… but we also haven't settled on the fundraising platform, and that needs to be in place  

**Rick Johnson:** early in this conversation, we'd talked to larger customers of coresource  
… there was consensus that heavy users a number of 10k would be looked at as a cost of doing business  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** is that annual or one-time?  

**Rick Johnson:** that was for the "how to you fix it" conversation  
… it's at least a data point  

**Bill Kasdorf:** publishers not reading systems?  

**Rick Johnson:** yes  

**George Kerscher:** I don't know if MIT can accept funds  
… they might take a hefty cut  
… we need to find out where money is going  
… DAISY might be able to help, or EDRLab  

**Bill McCoy:** I see RFP process and soliciting proposals as independent of donations  
… if we serialize those things we'll lose time  
… knowing how much $ we have will help  
… we should do things in parallel  

**Luc Audrain:** fundraising can be separate from who does the work  
… we need to choose company like EDRLab to do the work, as they are skilled in this area  

**George Kerscher:** DAISY may bid on the RFP if we add staff  
… but not at the moment  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I don't think that anyone was suggesting we serialize  
… we need to figure out how we will manage funds before we solicit funds  
… penciling people in is fine, but we need an answer when some one gives us a check  

**Bill McCoy:** agreed  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Liisa said what I was going to say  
… EDRLab had not volunteered; we were talking about an RFP  
… if other people want to work on the RFP it would help  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I won't have time for a while  

**Tzviya Siegman:** neither will i  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we need volunteers for RFP  

**Rachel Comerford:** I can get the skeleton together  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** awesome!  

**Luc Audrain:** this is one point we will bring to PBG next week  
… any other comments?  

### 2. WG/BG relations
{: #section2}

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/0012.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/0012.html)

**Tzviya Siegman:** I sent this email to the working group after many discussions with Garth and Ivan  
… we talked about it at PWG on Monday  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-04-16-pwg.html](https://www.w3.org/publishing/groups/publ-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-04-16-pwg.html)

**Tzviya Siegman:** one issue we talked about is that we're concerned that the WG is divorced from the reality of business needs  
… we want to talk about the influence the BG can have on the WG  
… and we want the work of the WG to be in line with the needs of the BG  
… we need to make sure our use cases are reflected in our specs  
… my use case on WP for scholarly publishing is not widely understood; I'll write it up  
… there needs to be more interaction between BG and WG  
… even though there's overlap  
… we want to make sure the chartered influence of the BG is actually there  

**Luc Audrain:** it's an important subject  
… it matched with the idea I mentioned about a combined meeting at TPAC with BG, WG, and CG, focused on business subjects  
… perhaps that's too late  
… this kind of discussion must be well-prepared  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** is there a particular discussion you're having now that should come back to the BG?  
… we can get that collaboration started if we have a topic  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I could give you a history of how we got here, but it's rather technical  
… around the WAM spec  
… our whole approach has been using readium technology, and so we're essentially recreating EPUB with a different serialization  
… so we need to take a step back  
… how are we approaching WP?  
… are trying to start with the web, or start with EPUB?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** is the business question there, do people see a need for a native browser to open packaged publication documents  

**Garth Conboy:** I think the issue is unpackaged  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** how do we frame that?  
… if you ask if PRH needs a way to read EPUBs outside of reading systems, I don't think we need that  
… maybe we should  
… but you have to ask the Q in a way that the business people can answer  

**Ivan Herman:** let me go back to what Liisa said  
… what you are asking is one of the possible business question  
… another aspect is  
… if we do what we plan to do, from the content point of view, there will be no different between what I can put on the web and what I can put in epub  
… how important it is that web developers can use the exact same skills to make book content  
… today web devs can't make books, because they need to understand how epub is different from the web at large  
… if we do WP right, that gap disappears  
… and there's a question if that has value for the publishing community  
… going back to my original comment about TPAC  
… we should not think in terms of a one-off get-together at TPAC  
… why would American publishers come to Lyon for a 2-hour meeting? I don't see that happening.  
… we need a continuous channel between the BG and the WG  
… another way of putting the problem is  
… the WG might need to re-invent publications from the bottom up, and develop new APIs that might eventually be in browsers  
… and with that we can do wonderful things  
… which is interesting and challenging  
… but I don't know if that's viable from the business perspective  
… the other alternative is to be more pragmatic  
… and perhaps start with what the EPUB 3.1 WG called browser friendly manifestation  
… and add offline, and the ability to have an unpackaged publication  
… the geeky folks would be happy inventing new stuff  

**Luc Audrain:** the question of business case will be easier for publishers for EPUB4  
… we have no roadmap for web publications as publishers  
… we have started with WP because some kind of minimal architecture for web content to be published as publication  
… this led to FPWD of WPUB  
… even the infoset is far away from EPUB  
… we have a tension here; if we started to do epub 4 we wouldn't allow the web devs to publish light and easy web pubs  
… but my company doesn't see a business case from these simple WPUBs  
… but we're not discussing EPUB4 yet  

**Bill McCoy:** going back to what tzviya said  
… I've stayed out of the tech discussion intentionally  
… partly because I was on the board of Readium, and was wary of conflicts of interest  
… I think tzviya's comments on the readium way vs web dev way  
… is begging the question  
… I see the web dev community bifurcating  
… react.js is the most popular framework  
… it ignores the dom and html  
… it treats the browser as a detail  
… it's not a normal way, but it's a practical way to build apps  
… I think the readium world is similar  
… it reflects an increasing schism in the web world  
… I don't know if business reasons will make the tech decisions for us  
… markup vs script  
… we need the tech folks to think about that  
… the readium effort is driven by the priorities of the people developing the software  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I haven't been on the call for the last ten minutes  
… my comment is based on liisamk_ comment, where PRH said that putting books on the web isn't a priority  
… but a scholarly publisher would say that's exactly what they wanted  

**Garth Conboy:** I think what Luc and Liisa match what Google thinks; not so interested in WP but interested in EPUB4  
… might be opening to switch orders  
… but the crux of tzviya's email  
… we looked at the enthusiasm around EPUB 3.2 and EPUBcheck, but not enthusiam around WP, as that's longer-term  
… maybe slow down WP  
… maybe that's reasonable, as BG is naturally more pragmatic  

**Ivan Herman:** back to what Luc said  
… the term EPUB 4 stands in the way  
… we all have this tendency to merge two technical aspects  
… one is content and one is packaging  
… in epub3, these things are rarely separated  
… in the outside world they are never separated  
… doing epub4 first is a meaningless statement  
… epub4 could be packaging around wp  
… there is no contradiction there  
… there are large publishing areas which do not care about packaging  
… but this area is not represented in our BG  
… I have contact with scholarly publishers, not only wiley  
… they don't care about packaging; they put PDF up there, but the primary medium for publication is the web  
… so let's not make a false distinction between EPUB4 and WP  

**Garth Conboy:** I respectfully disagree  
… when I start with EPUB4, I don't think the packaging is important  
… but when I say starting with epub 4  
… I say take a look at epub32, see how do do everything in a web-compatible way,  
… see what falls out  

**Ivan Herman:** I see that as WP  

**Garth Conboy:** maybe it's a terminology issue  

**George Kerscher:** can you repeat that?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I believe that we're all saying the same thing  
… what Garth, Ivan and I proposed was feature compatibility with epub in wp  
… but will do everything epub can do now  
… we don't have epub:type, but we duplicate that functionality  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to WP is feature compatible with EPUB but is pure OWP

> *Garth Conboy:* and likely be semi-round-trip-able with EPUB 3.2

**Tzviya Siegman:** so I can can open, well, not the package because it's not packaged  
… mabye we don't need both pwp and epub4  
… the functionalitiy is wp, the packaging is epub4  

**Luc Audrain:** I'm not sure  
… i don't want epub4 to start before wp  
… I want profiles  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Bill K has always been in favor of profiles too

**Luc Audrain:** i think we should have this idea of web publication with idea of what makes pub different from web site  
… then we have to build more complex things  

> *Garth Conboy:* q/

**Luc Audrain:** for example, we said a WP might not have a mandatory title, but it would be mandatory in EPUB4  
… I need it to be what a web dev can do  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Luc's example of title not mandatory in WP but mandatory in EPUB

**Luc Audrain:** it can't block any evolution/profile of WP  
… we should move on from WP and start to build other specs as soon as possible  
… then it will be easier to discuss use cases  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with you, too  
… one suggestion on Monday was to start with a minimal WP and then add requirements  
… or maybe adding requirements when we get to EPUB  
… this is more a discussion for the WG  
… the key point here is the involvement of the BG  
… sometimes there are specific requests on features, but we also need general monitoring  
… we're trying to sync with use cases  
… I'll try to have summaries for the SC  
… as ivan said, there needs to be continuous engagement with the BG  

**Ivan Herman:** let's not go into tech details  
… the problem with the WG is a social engineering thing  
… if we don't have a clear framework, we dive into experimental things  
… which may lead to years of discussions and standards that aren't useful  
… and w3c is less  tolerant of this now  
… this group can help keep the WG within business needs  
… we have to accept hard facts  
… in the next 2-3 years core browser things will not pick up things we define  
… there may be specialized browsers built on the top of the core  
… this has consequences on architecture  
… is this adding active JS into the publication acceptable?  
… this is the interaction we need constantly  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** tzviya, it would be great if you could give an update in the BG for what you proposed this week, and what you agreed on  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to liisa

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** in a way that helps them understand how this works for scholarly publishers, etc  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* i can do that

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** and as issues come up, you want to discuss them with the BG  

**Luc Audrain:** the idea of a channel between BG and WG will help with use case  
… what are business case of web publications? that could be a discussion we could have in BG  
… what are the business cases? what can it do? what does it solve for companies? for publishers?  
… and then we have the discussion again for PWP, and again for EPUB4  
… bring in business cases at each step  

### 3. Manga/comics Workshop update
{: #section3}

**Bill McCoy:** I need one minute  
… we are firming up plans for a manga workshop in Tokyo sponsored by Keio  
… we have a couple of program committee members identified  
… we should solicit the BG for volunteers; that should be on BG agenda  
… I'll defer details until BG call, where I could spend five minutes  
… should this be agenda for next weeks BG call  

**Dave Cramer:** why are we doing this workshop?  

**Bill McCoy:** short answer: japan uses FXL a lot, and manga is half the market  
… the concern is that we haven't focused on those needs  
… both for EPUB 3 enhancements and needs for WP etc  

> *Luc Audrain:* and EDRLab has also such a WG on Bandes dessinées / Comics /manga

**Bill McCoy:** the idea is to get experts together, so that manga are focused on  

**Luc Audrain:** EDRLab has a working group on BD; we need to put together requirements with Japan  
… no objections  

### 4. Accessing Higher Ground, November 14-16 in Colorado
{: #section4}

**George Kerscher:** update on AHG  
… it's a good-sized conf focused on higher ed; last year 650 people, this and CSUN are the 2 places in the US where we can promote EPUB  
… some sectors of this community have been pushing back because they don't understand it  
… they're used to chopping and scanning  
… we have a track over three days  
… we want to shape the proposals so we can educate that community  
… Jonathan Thurston is chair of BISG a11y advocacy group, looks like it will be going  
… over the next three weeks we'll help people put together proposals  
… some people from outside our community will be doing proposals for that track  

**Bill Kasdorf:** what is the track?  

**George Kerscher:** Accessible EPUB is here  
… current stuff, why it's great, conformance to standards  
… use of Ace  
… stuff vitalsource is doing  
… stuff on a11y of reading apps  
… best practices  
… purchasing recs  
… buy born-accessible content  
… the LD community uses the Kurzweil product; their EPUB support is getting better  
… lots of things  

**Rachel Comerford:** george, how are we coordinating to avoid overlap in proposals  

**George Kerscher:** jonathan has asked BISG for a coordination call  
… BISG doesn't have a mailing list for us  

**Bill Kasdorf:** they've offered to create one  

**Luc Audrain:** we can share by mail  
… we are at the hour  
… I can't work on agenda now; liisamk_ or rick can you help?  

**Rick Johnson:** I'm heading to Asia  

**Luc Audrain:** thanks everyone  

---
