---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-06-15
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-06-15
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-06-15

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/06/15-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Luc Audrain, Rick Johnson, Tzviya Siegman, Ivan Herman, Daihei Shiohama, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Karen Myers, Garth Conboy, Rachel Comerford, Bill McCoy, Bill Kasdorf

**Regrets:** George Kerscher, Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Karen Myers

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Karen Myers:* test

**Luc Audrain:** we have several things to discuss  

> *Karen Myers:* Tzviya, fund raising for EPUB Checker

### 1. epubcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

**Tzviya Siegman:** Liisa, Rachel and I talked about having tiered funding  
… we can discuss titles and levels  

> *Karen Myers:* [names levels]

**Tzviya Siegman:** We need to write some copy for the web site  
… generally, we need to agree on these tiers  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/Epubcheck-Development-Update-and-Maintenance-Request-for-Proposal](https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/Epubcheck-Development-Update-and-Maintenance-Request-for-Proposal)

**Tzviya Siegman:** and I do have the RFP ready to go  
… Today is the day we are supposed to send it out  

**Luc Audrain:** Any question on the tiers?  

**Rick Johnson:** What are we thinking are the differences between the tiers in terms of messages to the sponsors  
… Generosity of sponsors, or specific benefit differences based on the levels, or 'go for it' if you can?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Good question  

**Karen Myers:** Typically sponsorship levels imply overt benefits; benefactors like philharmonic for example, are just designated formally, but may have other benefits  

**Rick:** where does that list go, what are we thinking?  

**Bill:** I agree with Rick that leveling the promotional benefits, such as gold sponsors is one way  
… or people who step up to higher level of sponsorships are included in the oversight of the project plan  
… but the lower contributors implement but are not at the oversight table  
… we could also include someone in the SC if they did not step up to higher level of donation  
… or automatically put you on the SC if you are at the higher sponsor levels; could be one way  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://www.mathjax.org/#sponsors](https://www.mathjax.org/#sponsors)

**Tzviya Siegman:** We looked at one way to do it with MathJax  
… big logos, small logos and names  
… Bill, model you describe, the AB has been talking about this  
… the pay to play model with something that is open source becomes a real concern  
… may be a real problem if someone is offered a seat at the table  

**Bill:** It worked for LCP  
… but if you are interested in DRM, then you are not an open source purist  
… W3C would be independent of the fundraising, but agree with you and AB we need to be careful  

**Rachel Comerford:** I would echo objection to allow prioritization of participation based on financial contributions  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Rachel Comerford:** it under values the contributions of those high value contributors whose orgs cannot afford to pay  
… if they only have a seat for $10K then they cannot be at table  
… we introduce a whole series of issues in terms of prioritization of work and EPUB check overall  
… I will be donating on behalf of Macmillan  
… but as future donor, I don't feel obligation to have a seat on the board  
… or set aside employee on board  
… setting aside a level of support is fine for me; we know it's an industry contribution  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to Rachel's comments

**Luc Audrain:** to insist on this simple list of contributors  
… to have only the name of the company is a good thing and we should not do more; I see it this way  

**Rick Johnson:** Given that, I would like to make a suggested resolution to tier sponsorship level and provide a public page to acknowledge those levels by what they donated  
… that is what we are saying  

**Luc Audrain:** I agree with you, Rick  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to RickJ

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** We have just solved this question  
… Any more comment on the different tiers and how they will be presented?  
… There is also the RFP  

#### 1.1. RFP
{: #section1-1}

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/Epubcheck-Development-Update-and-Maintenance-Request-for-Proposal](https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/Epubcheck-Development-Update-and-Maintenance-Request-for-Proposal)

**Luc Audrain:** Tzviya, is the RFP ok for you and the people to review it?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** It has already been reviewed and transferred to the wiki  
… we will send it out today  
… People have offered to publicize it on their own sites  
… BISG for example  
… Today is the day we are announcing it  

**Luc Audrain:** Good; let's send it  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Other issue is for the fundraising; we need someone to write text for the web site  

**Rick Johnson:** although we make it visible, suggest we start the PR on Monday  
… even if we make it public today  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, that's fine  

**Garth Conboy:** There is a list. up to $20K  
… Liisa's email...  
… If I am going to hunt for some money  

**Luc Audrain:** you mean we should open the list up  

**Garth Conboy:** the levels?  
… I wanted to know how solid that is  

> *Garth Conboy:* EPUBcheck Sponsor Funding

> *Garth Conboy:* ◦          $20K – Sponsor (or is there a better word?)

> *Garth Conboy:* ◦          $10K –  Partner

> *Garth Conboy:* ◦          $5K –  Supporter

> *Garth Conboy:* ◦          $2K –  Friend

> *Garth Conboy:* ◦          donate what you want

**Rick Johnson:** This is a great place to start and see if people fall into those categories  

**Tzviya Siegman:** There is also donate what you want  

**Garth Conboy:** I will see what I can do with Google  
… and I will personally donate $3.14  

**Bill McCoy:** is that Pi?  

**Luc Audrain:** Highest tier could be $20K+  

**Garth Conboy:** sounds good, thank you  

### 2. Tokyo workshop
{: #section2}

**Bill McCoy:** We are anticipating to get W3M formal approval next Wednesday morning  
… Mukata was out  
… He had some comments and wanted to respect his input  
… Important we do this next week  
… Also had a lengthy discussion with Wendy Seltzer, head of strategy  
… she oversees workshops; she is supportive and wants to see if move forward  

> *Bill McCoy:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wExl8Cxh8kMhzZu5UrWLhspMU2ZmGA6Wz3pmjtWQ5eY/edit#heading=h.6pcetlq699m3](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wExl8Cxh8kMhzZu5UrWLhspMU2ZmGA6Wz3pmjtWQ5eY/edit#heading=h.6pcetlq699m3)

**Bill McCoy:** Text for call for proposal  
… You were previously copied and commented  
… It is possible to volunteer to PC even if you do not plan to travel  
… You can help craft program  
… Up to co-chairs to figure out who should be on PC  
… and does not matter if you cannot attend or not  
… Tzviya, for example, you can consider volunteering  
… Expect a couple more committee members next week  
… Expect CfP to go out end of next week or early week of 25 June  
… then we will promote on W3C site and Japan [Keio] will promote as well  
… there is also going to be a half-day symposium  
… targeted at Japanese pub industry folks  
… more informational, what is going on in the web platform  
… that will primarily be in Japanese; will be translated  
… Symposium targeted for Japanese audience  
… and planning Japanese layout and CSS stuff that Makoto is organizing  
… and lastly going to be an executive breakfast with heads of Japanese publishing companies, likely the first day  
… So a packed series of activities to increase the impact of this workshop  
… On way to W3C management approval  
… we are poised to transfer from Google doc to the Workshop format  
… Please get your comments into the Google doc now; after that I will transfer into HTML skeleton  

**Luc Audrain:** what about @ to be a member of committee from EDRLab?  

**Bill McCoy:** Laurent is ok and I will extend an invitation to her shortly  
… assume our diversity level will increase  

**Bill McCoy:** not on this topic  
… any other questions on this topic?  
… if you have questions, please consider volunteering for PC  
… thank you  

**Luc Audrain:** for next PBG call on Tuesday, you will do a call for PC  

**Bill McCoy:** there seems to be some debate about how many people are on PC, meet diversity goals, and respect wishes of co-chairs  
… within 24 hours of W3M go-ahead  
… certainly we can informally ask for more PC volunteers as long as you are ok  

**Luc Audrain:** We have 12-13 members  
… if we have 1-2 women, it would be a large PC  
… we should close it soon and begin to work  

**Bill McCoy:** we can also kick off some people...[laughs]  

**Luc Audrain:** Not what I said! :)  
… we should finish and publish start of the week after [25 June]  
… Ok, Bill, do you think you will make some publicity about the other three events?  

**Bill McCoy:** the symposium for sure  
… Japan Electronic Publishing Association and maybe one or two other groups will sponsor  
… that will be publicly advertised and will have larger capacity than workshop which is about 90 people  
… want SC to know about these other activities  
… don't think other events will be publicized; not sure so will ask Makoto  

**Luc Audrain:** I will be at the symposium for sure  
… others it depends  
… I will discuss those subjects with Makoto  
… and discuss European standards items  

**Rachel Comerford:** I have two comments relevant to this conversation, the other relevant to EPUB Check conversation  
… It does make me mildly uncomfortable that we need to find women and 1-2 are ok  
… surely there is a better way to handle this  
… and EPUB Check we need copy for the web site  
… Tzviya brought this up a couple of times  

> *Luc Audrain:* apologize

**Rachel Comerford:** and we need to address it, get it committed to so we can push it forward  

**Bill McCoy:** Rachel, I do want to respond  
… It was Tzviya who increased us to improve diversity  
… Tell us a better way  
… we can do whatever makes sense  

**Rachel Comerford:** There are so many women who are active in this field  
… seems strange that we look for women after we already have 12 men participating  

**Bill McCoy:** committed is too strong; suggestions were made  
… Make other suggestions  
… give us some counsel  
… want to make sure we are doing it constructively  

**Tzviya Siegman:** The objectionable phrase was "we need to find 1-2 women"  

**Bill McCoy:** Correct  
… I think you suggested we make sure we include women for the remaining slots  
… sorry if I did not do that respectfully  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I have recruited volunteers  
… it is necessary to actually recruit or draft volunteers  
… the process has to be pro-active from the get-go  
… that is the best way to avoid this male dominated body  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* or contact the [https://www.w3.org/community/w3c-women/](https://www.w3.org/community/w3c-women/)

> *Bill McCoy:* +1 I would happy to invite Junko

> *Karen Myers:* Junko Kamata, President and CEO of Voyager Japan

> *Bill McCoy:* Kamata-san is not super technical so it's up to co-chairs if they are OK with that

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you, Bill to invite Junko Kamata  
… anything more on this topic?  

### 3. Fundraising text (for epubcheck)
{: #section3}

**Tzviya Siegman:** Does anyone have experience writing fundraising copy?  

**Luc Audrain:** Bill?  

**Bill McCoy:** I am going to be busy getting the Tokyo workshop publicized  
… unless timing can sequence after the Tokyo workshop  
… it needs to sequence itself  

**Luc Audrain:** I see you had a question on EPUB Check?  

**Rachel Comerford:** yes, someone to write copy for EPUB CHeck  

**Luc Audrain:** How do we address this question?  

**Karen Myers:** BillM, did you approach the W3C Comm team for EPUB Check?  

**Bill McCoy:** Goal is to make it an outreach of PBG  
… and not make it a request of W3C itself  
… we can certainly use W3C web page area and blog, but we don't want it to be a W3C press release and blog  
… main concern is it's not to be a W3C driven effort  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Karen, I was in touch with Ralph about this  
… Jeff said that once we have a draft, he will put us in touch with Veronica, Comm team, to put on site  
… but we need to put something together first  
… in our RFP we said we would work on it in Sept.  
… If we want to work on it for BillM to write this for ten days  
… and we are confident we can meet our goals  
… Since Bill has experience writing something like this, maybe we target first week of July  

> *Bill McCoy:* maybe someone else could draft something roughly and I could volunteeer to be editor?

> *Bill McCoy:* and to get it on website / blog etc

**Luc Audrain:** good idea  

**Luc Audrain:** RFP will be sent soon  
… and fundraising soon, too  
… not sure how people will react  

**Bill Kasdorf:** we do tend to be US centric  
… when we are talking about this fund-raising we need to think internationally  
… there are many int'l companies that depend upon EPUB Check  
… one pet peeve  
… is that putting something up on web site is not sufficient, you have to actively approach people  
… it will succeed if we have emissaries to XYZ  

**Luc Audrain:** yes, you are right  
… I think it is international and we have to push info to newsletters to Europe and Japan and Korea and elsewhere  
… this is one of items of EPUB Roadmap TF  
… we should maintain at least some kind of lists of news channels that are good to push information and news and that kind of solicitation all over the world  
… you have also seen that I have sent an invitation to a next call for the EPUB Roadmap TF  
… and one of the ideas is to publish anywhere in any language when we are ready with EPUB2->EPUB3 white paper, EPUB Check  
… should we set up a wiki or Google doc about all those newsletters and channels?  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

**Bill Kasdorf:** I have not been able to address this yet on external comms TF  
… that TF has already drawn up a list  
… and coordination on roadmap is on our list  
… and the fundraising is a better prioritiy  
… we have a good group that have contacts in many parts of the world  

**Luc Audrain:** so you will set up wiki with this list?  
… would you mind to set up the wiki with the list you mentioned?  

> *Ivan Herman:* -> [https://github.com/w3c/publ-bg/wiki](https://github.com/w3c/publ-bg/wiki) can be used for wiki

**Bill Kasdorf:** I need to get back to that group to make sure the list is complete and can be made public; yes, I will do as soon as I can  

**Luc Audrain:** there is a link from Ivan to put this  
… we have all access to add anything we can gather in the different Task Forces  
… ivan, can you check whether we can all write on that wiki?  

**Ivan Herman:** yes, I will have to check  
… I think the answer is yes  
… will make a note to check  

**Ivan Herman:** about the targets for sponsors, we targeted on publishers  
… others are also interested in having EPUB Check properly done  
… Google is one of those and Garth will do what he can  
… but contacting the Kobos, Apples, and Amazons of this World would be interesting  

**Rachel Comerford:** and maybe a company called Vital Source?  

**Rick Johnson:** that's ok [laughs]  

**Ivan Herman:** let's be optimistic  

**Luc Audrain:** Not sure if this list is sufficient to contact the list of those named  
… we may know direct channels  
… ok, more on this topic?  
… We will set up a wiki with a list of all the newsletters and channels  
… I already spoke about the next call for the EPUB Roadmap; we have an offer to translate into Portuguese and to publicize it in Brazil  
… when all the members of the BG relay information in other languages, that is positive  

**Ivan Herman:** I just checked  
… All members of SC have the right to do anything with that repository, including writing on the wiki page  

**Luc Audrain:** good news  
… we can maintain this page  

**Ivan Herman:** you can change the whole repository:-)  

**Luc Audrain:** for this wiki with list of channels, we should have a link to the newsletter, website  
… and describe the language  
… and add a contact name and email  
… or just email if we don't know contact name  
… can you think of other things?  
… let's start with that  
… Ok, any other business for today?  

**Luc Audrain:** Thank you everybody  
… I will not be there next Tuesday  
… Would like to ask Rick to prepare agenda for next week's BG call?  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* I will not be there on tuesday either

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I won't be on the call Tuesday either

> *Bill McCoy:* thanks Rick LMK if I can help

---
