---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-09-21
title: Publishing Business Group Steering Committee — 2018-09-21
---

# Publishing Business Group Steering Committee — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-09-21

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/09/21-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rick Johnson, Dave Cramer, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Tzviya Siegman, Karen Myers, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Bill Kasdorf, Jeff Jaffe, Garth Conboy

**Regrets:** Rachel Comerford, Ivan Herman, Luc Audrain

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Karen Myers, Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUBCheck Funding
{: #section1}


**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Do we want to start with EPUBCheck funding? Have we seen any commitments  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I have to check with Richard and George who are keeping track of the funding  
… I have heard of people who have committed anecdotally  
… Rachel spoke with orgs who said they would commit  
… There are amounts coming in; not sure how much  
… Julien @ contacted me about writing a post for a Brazilian blog  
… word is going out, getting some press  
… keep pushing this.  
… I will ask George to give us an update; would be good to get regular updates  

**Bill Kasdorf:** As soon as site went live we kicked into gear  
… Task force members would make personal contacts within orgs they signed up for  
… we also said that the chairs  
… a more formal appeal to go out from the chairs  
… I drafted and sent it out but have not heard yet  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we will do that  
… had a tough week  
… will need to look at that  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Just want to make sure if we do it; who will do the sending  
… thinking is should go out from one of the chairs, who would sign it  
… I need to send you the names and emails of contact emails  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I am happy to send to you contacts if you send me the list  
… in the same vein, I have not sent note to BG  
… we sent to WG and CG this week  
… will do that later today or top of Monday to make top of people's in-boxes  
… and help them understand  
… I went to my boss this week  
… explained why it was important  
… PRH will make a commitment, but need to finalize the amount  
… anything else we want to talk about relative to EPUBCheck funding?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'll put purpose and future of SC later on call  

### 2. Promoting TPI and membership levels
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** In order to help Karen, Ralph, Alan we need to maybe work on a document that outlines what participation in each of these three groups entails  
… who are the right kind of people to be involved at each level  

**Tzviya Siegman:** One thought I have is to start inviting  
… some of the evangelists like Bobby Tung  
… although timing is not great in Taiwan  
… Good to communicate what the participation, and talk about exactly what the groups are doing and the distinction between the groups  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Want to point out this is an opportune time to talk about the three groups  
… the BG we have talked about in more amorphous terms  
… When I tell people we're fixing EPUBCheck, that's a concrete thing people can get their heads around, and it's important for the echosystem  
… and draft for Web Publications  
… We have concrete things to talk about, not just generalities  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** great point, Bill  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I bring it up because people wonder if these groups do things  

**Jeff Jaffe:** some plus 1s  
… document you suggested would be helpful  
… Bill's point  
… documents are helpful, but in my mind  
… the core people who are involved every day and every week understand the momentum  
… the fringes of the old IDPF membership are not as plugged in as they used to be for whatever reason  
… having lots of conversations is important  
… perhaps even more than the document  
… Working Group is very specific, charter, specs, in what is trying to do  
… BG is less specific  
… and is more open  
… we should be able to tell people this is the watering hole where we discuss very specific things like EPUBCheck  
… but we also talk all together about how to get adoption; how to relate to Amazon  
… I would not call it a formal relaunch but make sure TPIs understand they can come here for conversations and get traction  

**Rick Johnson:** I would like to make the case for an international audience for this document  
… Southeast Asia, South Africa  
… I want to do the next thing; help me get started and get involved  
… this document could help to address some of that as well  

**Dave Cramer:** I think we don't need a doc as much as communications coming out all the time  
… web site should have introduction to all the groups  
… but weekly blog posts, articles describing what is happening would be good  
… BG as focal point for problem-solving in the industry  
… we have not really taken on that role yet  
… as Jeff said having that watering hole  
… we have heard some pain points around the standards  
… we need a place where we can triage issues  
… I am having an issue, but is it a spec, workflow, vendor problem  
… best handled by whom?  
… one of our groups, BISG?  
… that is a useful role we could play  
… and would allow us to be more visible in the publishing world  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think we needed to be better about communications  
… suggested the document to help us be clearer about the messaging when we're out there talking  
… that personal 1:1 is important  
… we have all come to this in different ways and have made this commitment for different reasons  
… Personally, talking to my management about the work  
… and importance of putting money  
… reaction of 'you do this work for Liisa' not PRH  
… and I said 'no, I do it for PRH'  
… help people to make that case in their own organizations is a bit of what I would like to get to  
… a good argument for why your org should support  

**Karen Myers:** we need both, in my experience  
… to rick and Liisa's point, we do need some document with talking points that talks about the digital transformation  
… and how you get engaged in an org like w3c, and how to take advantage of all these things  
… there's a high-level opportunity here  
… and we need to talk about what each of the groups do  
… we should go through the exercise of getting these talking points down  
… and then how to communicate them  
… there's a huge need for education and understanding  

**Bill Kasdorf:** as you explain to your management  
… first target is former IDPF members  
… we want all publishers  
… but let's not let Jeff's comment that Amazon joined W3C get lost  
… that is significant  
… I'm sure we have to be careful about what we need to say  
… I am not advocating public things as much  
… we don't want to alienate Amazon  
… but personal conversations like you had with your management  
… that is an attention getter  
… Amazon is at the table  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** But Amazon is not at the table yet  
… I told their book people they have joined  
… they are not ready to sit at the table  
… they are interested  
… Jeff has good point, to carefully pull their book people in and back to the center  
… that is a tough nut to crack  

**Bill Kasdorf:** that is a good reality check  
… and the accessibility work is relevant to someone  
… at least a movement to get them more engaged  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Absolutely  
… anyone else want to jump in on this topic?  
… as a next step  
… I am going to commit to  
… after I have gotten Bill his doc and sent to BG  
… I am going to start a document that we can collectively edit; I'll send a Google doc link  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think to Jeff's point of getting Amazon more engaged  
… we can talk about whether there is any chance  
… where we can do the one thing they want - warn people when their images are not big enough  

**Rick Johnson:** is editing for the we the BG as a whole or this committee?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think we start here and then take it to the bigger group  

**Tzviya Siegman:** you mentioned that Amazon has an issue  
… can you ask them to log it?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Can I do it on their behalf? Is that ok with you?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** yes  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let me talk to them and see if they will let me do that  

**Dave Cramer:** ....has not been best practices  
… pre-flight; normative statements in the specs; concern that EPUB is used to enforce vendor guidelines for ebooks  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I hear you and share that concern  
… maybe think about what the marketplace needs from EPUBCheck  
… does it become a more normative useful tool if it incorporates those processes that we all do on the fly  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I want to tiptoe into comments about Amazon and EPUBCheck  
… if there is something specific Amazon wants  
… and we have an EPUBCheck funding campaign  
… is there a way to size the cost of what they want  
… and get them started as participants by contributing  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I would think there is  

**Tzviya Siegman:** If they are limiting image size  
… and others are not  
… then we are validating the spec  
… error warning would be triggered for Rick unless we have a less specific error warning  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** They want biggest image files possible  
… they have a minimum; at least this big  

**Tzviya Siegman:** That seems a bit more likely  
… we have opposite  
… people could have bad images and they still want to get them through  
… have legacy titles  
… still have a problem; it's not a spec  
… validation that other vendors don't have  
… need to create a Kindle-specific warning and require other vendors to ignore it if they choose to  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Or we engage more of the vendors and come to a standard about it  

**Dave Cramer:** I am not seeing our role for the quality of content  

> *Rick Johnson:* I have to leave for another meeting.  Sorry.

**Dave Cramer:** sounds further from mission of W3C to enforce private companies' quality control concerns  
… I see need for a tool, but don't see that as EPUBCheck  
… make sure content follows the EPUB spec  
… foresee large technical difficulties  
… see if Amazon can swap out PDF or image files  
… we are drifting into vendor-specific workflow territory  

**Garth Conboy:** I think an info message from EPUBCheck would be overall good fo industry  
… I would be happy to throw them a bone to get them more involved  
… that would not be specific to Amazon  
… agree we need to be wary on vendor-specific stuff  
… this may be vague  
… but it may be done in EPUBCHeck and I woudl not oppose it  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I agree with Garth; we do have best practices under development  
… other thing to point out  
… Accessibility checking tools report errors and warnings and it is very useful  
… they say this thing does not align with best practices  
… doesn't say it's illegal or a violation  
… not uncommon for that kinds of checking tool to enforce conformance and good practices  
… admit that would be a next generation EPUBCheck  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I totally agree  

**Bill Kasdorf:** We could add the image thing  

**Tzviya Siegman:** EPUBCheck already does errors and warnings  
… in terms of low res images  
… think about medical publishing  
… a lot of those are not high res  
… I get flack from Amazon about the quality of images  
… they are not improvable  
… they are not clear images because the magnification is 1000 percent  
… we would need more detail about what Amazon wants before we say yes or no  

**Garth Conboy:** I don't think we want to do machine learning on high res or fuzzy images  

**Dave Cramer:** If book has warning in EPUBCheck it cannot get into the supply chain in US publishing industry  
… if not an error or warning  
… gate-keeping for content feels like a bad place for W3C to be  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** complete agree it should be informational not a warning  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** responding to your comment, Tzviya, why I have been arguing why we need to tag an image  
… tell everybody it's as good as it gets; accept it  
… don't put it on the page that it's low res  
… Amazon would be happy to accept if we tag it in some way  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Do we have discussion about summary and details tagging? I would like to invite them as a guest  

**Dave Cramer:** that sounds like in-line metadata about image quality  
… stuff you don't want to expose to the end user  

> *Karen Myers:* Liisa; yes, that was the problem about summary and detail  
> *Karen Myers:* ..I cannot let user see this

**Dave Cramer:** space, I cannot do things  
… It's Donald Trump from scan of paper from 1970s  
… they asked me to have images re-taken for that book  
… I explained I could not get him back with his ex-wife or make him younger again  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Maybe WashPost would like to get involved  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I like the EPUB fuzzy  

**Tzviya Siegman:** There are ways to obfuscate  

**Dave Cramer:** and schema, but that may take a while  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** all right  
… Let's get back to the agenda  
… are there any specific things we want to take to the BG next week?  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* i will miss the meeting on Tuesday

### 3. Agenda items for BG call next week
{: #section3}

**Bill Kasdorf:** Fundraising  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Do we want to talk about image quality topic  
… to be considered for a future version?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** It's fundamentally a change in the direction of EPUBCheck  
… we have not really come to agreement in this group  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what I am asking is if we should ask BG if they are grappling on how to deal with images across reading systems  
… or would you be interested in tools  
… or if others say they have it solved  
… But I think it's an issue  
… There is getting the backlist up to speed  
… and making sure the front list will work in that interim space for all the retailers you send to  
… it is tough; not an easily definable space  
… I think there are things we can share  

**Garth Conboy:** I don't have an issue with fuzziness  
… interesting discussion today, but wondering if it belongs in SC or be in BG because it's interesting stuff  
… and makes people realize it's TPI topic of value  

**Dave Cramer:** a great topic for the BG agenda  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what else do we have on the agenda for next week  

> *Garth Conboy:* Fundraising update, I’d presume (for agenda for BG).

**Jeff Jaffe:** one thing we may want to share somewhere  
… Dominique Hazaël-Massieux is as W3C staff member for MDN  
… basically used to be the Mozilla Developer Network  
… he has been working to get their agreement to put things on MDN  
… related to developers not necessarily browser technologies like what Mozilla usually implements  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Related](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Related)

**Jeff Jaffe:** but other web technologies that are used by others  
… would be good for Dom to share with BG on what his conversations have been and how to take that forward  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Could someone who can explain it join the call?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Dom would do it; don't know if he is available  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I have spoken with Dom about this  
… forgot to put on the agenda  
… I spoke extensively about what would be needed to add EPUB  
… dropped a link in  
… we still need to get to TPI discussion  
… we could put on the agenda for next time, or I could talk about what would be involved in documenting MDN  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Do you want to talk about it here before taking to the BG?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** there is significant resource requirement; think we should discuss here first  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** ok  
… any further comments for next week [agenda] for the BG  
… I want to raise a conversation about pagination  
… an interesting business level conversation to have; will likely push into best practices  
… from content and reading system standpoints  
… when you move things out of order  
… paginate not in print but inserted in middle of book  
… if people are addressing those issues  
… we have been looking at issues coming up from reading systems  
… think we are not alone in some of the questions that have been raised  

**Dave Cramer:** by pagination, you mean expressing numbers in EPUB when they are not exact analogs?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** exactly  
… point made about different kinds of publishers  
… this may be different for different people; where is it needed and where is the preciseness of it needed  
… In time we have left  
… shall we talk about role of this group?  

### 4. Role of Publishing Steering Committee
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do we need to formalize it  
… put our thoughts on paper  
… now is time to jump in  

**Dave Cramer:** I have  
… not entirely clear to me  
… what the role of the SC is  
… this is in some ways a holdover from the IDPF board  
… it was a literal board of directors that had many things it has to do  
… so the environment around that board has changed dramatically since the merger  
… the way these calls have been going is some combination  
… of working on agendas for BG meetings  
… and having substantive conversations about issues important to the industry that don't have to be restricted  
… I have impulse to try things without a SC  
… seems mission of BG is to provide coordination and leadership  
… and work on interaction between other groups  
… feels like we may some duplication of effort  

> *Karen Myers:* s/Barth

**Garth Conboy:** I agree with Dave  
… but cannot refer to merger as complete  
… it is still embroiled in litigation  
… we made a substantial change to be heads of working groups and task forces  
… I don't think we want SC to go away right now because merger is not complete  
… but SC should do as little as possible and put the bulk of the stuff into the BG proper  

**Bill Kasdorf:** mainly Garth's point  
… and observation that SC does a lot of the work and BG is more passive  
… that ambiguity of who approves decision on who gets the EPUBCheck development work  
… the SC did all that  
… nothing is really being done by the BG; it's all being done by the SC  
… does not seem like that was the original idea for the BG; that's the formal group in the W3C  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** as Garth said, the SC is the coordination among the groups  
… ask if we should bring certain items forward to other groups  
… we have strong opinions  
… kind of nice to talk through our opinions here so we don't overwhelm others  
… would we drown out other voices  
… how can we pull other voices into the conversations  
… put our feelings aside  
… seed conversations along  
… get the BG actually active and not overwhelm them with being a second meeting of all of us  

**Dave Cramer:** I am worried about the flip side of that  
… how do we get people engaged if the interesting conversations are happening in the SC  
… other things happen in a group that you are not a member of  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I don't think we stop people from discussing  

**Dave Cramer:** EPUBCHeck conversation would be a good one; don't think we're helping by insulating them from those discussion  
… this conversation about what EPUBCheck is and should we expand it, and resources is interesting  
… maybe we have these conversations with the larger group  
… WG has these kinds of conversations  
… having them twice is not as interesting the second time  

> *Dave Cramer:* +1 to tzviya

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** anybody else?  

**Dave Cramer:** Just briefly mention that the SC  
… is something that does not fit neatly in the W3C process right now  
… the BG makes all the decisions  
… we would be fine with the BG  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I honestly don't  
… I explained this to Jeff and Karen  
… I have tried over last year to see what it's like to just be a member not of BG  
… and not pay attention to other two groups  
… where I find out about the other groups is here  
… You don't bring them to the BG  
… and it makes me realize we need to figure out a better coordination  
… if not SC  
… we'll need to figure out where it is  
… We came here understanding that this is a bit of an experiment  
… not exactly the same model W3C has had  
… I am concerned we are effective and no one wastes their time  

**Dave Cramer:** brings up communications and more topics in the BG and keep all participants informed  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I don't have a strong opinion about this  
… the way the non-working groups  
… work is more for team to stay out of  
… but I'm hearing both sides and hearing that BG is where nexus of conversation should happen  
… and others say they are not happening is they are in SC instead  
… one possible way forward is to keep SC for a period of time  
… those who think conversations should be in BG, then be encouraged to do so  
… and they will have proved their point and SC is no longer needed  
… if not, we keep SC as a central point of coordination  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to Jeff

> *Karen Myers:* @: I like that

> *Dave Cramer:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We are at over our time  
… if anybody thinks of anything else for BG agenda next week, let me know. I will send out agenda this afternoon  

**Garth Conboy:** thanks Liisa and Karen  

> *Dave Cramer:* RRSAgent: make logs public

---
