---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-09-07
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-09-07
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-09-07

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/09/07-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Tzviya Siegman, Karen Myers, Dave Cramer, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Garth Conboy, Bill Kasdorf

**Regrets:** Luc Audrain, Rachel Comerford

**Guests:** Richard Orme

**Chair:** Luc Audrain, Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Dave Cramer:* RRSAgent: make logs public

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's get started  

### 1. Epubcheck fundraising
{: #section1}

**Tzviya Siegman:** Richard Orme from DAISY is here  
… I sent a summary of my conversation with Richard and George last week  
… I thought we'd offer a status update, and then open it up for questions  
… We have a w3c website ready to go  
… the donate button leads to the DAISY page  
… which has paypal or stripe  
… DAISY is testing the payment options right now  
… testing should be finished next week  
… then the companies that have already pledged can try out the payment system  
… we hope to have the website live late next week  
… I've talked to W Seltzer about an agreement to use logos of donors  
… that's about it from the funding perspective  
… we also need to talk about the MOU and SOW  

**Richard Orme:** you've said that those funds are held separately in DAISY's account, then they will be passed to the SC/Luc  

**George Kerscher:** the donate button takes you to a form, and you can choose invoice, wire transfer, cheque, or paypal/stripe  
… that page can also upload your logo and the permissions for the logo  

**Richard Orme:** at first, that will be a manual process  

**Tzviya Siegman:** and people can remain anonymous?  

**Richard Orme:** we don't have anything specific on that. Do we need to check that?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** We do need to allow for that; maybe just not requiring logo  

**Richard Orme:** things might come up as we're coding  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I've raised the option of a pledge option, due to bureaucracy  
… maybe requesting an invoice would serve that purpose  
… Richard, have you found pledging useful?  

**Richard Orme:** We're acting as trusted holder of funds  
… as far as pledges go, that raises questions of follow-up.  
… maybe there's a way of accommodating that  
… so I don't have anything specific to propose  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I'm fine with this  

**Richard Orme:** if it doesn't work out, an invoice can be voided  
… For Tzviya and Luc, encouraging people to get an invoice is like pledging. We can unwind as needed.  

**Ivan Herman:** two things on the web page  
… 1. it has a long URL, if we have a better name we can use it  
… 2. that URL is not linked from anything; at some point we need publicity  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising](https://www.w3.org/publishing/epubcheck_fundraising)

**Tzviya Siegman:** I don't think the URL Is terrible  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we could do a blog post on the main w3c blog; we could tweet about it, we could blog on epubsecrets  

**Ivan Herman:** all of the above  
… Bill's epub outreach could talk about it  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we use all of those ways of getting the word to the street  
… we can reach out to the press  

> *Dave Cramer:* (sound of bandsaw)

**Bill Kasdorf:** my group doesn't know about the press  
… maybe w3t should handle that?  

**Richard Orme:** another suggestion is for orgs that do donate we can provide them copy to share  

**Ivan Herman:** I can't comment on the press thing  
… is it a link we want on the publishing activity home page?  
… how long a life do we want to give to this?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** it needs to be long enough that we get money  

**Tzviya Siegman:** at least a few months  

**Ivan Herman:** should be on p@w3c home page  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** by press I mean someone should send an email to M Kowalski, for example  

**Karen Myers:** I wasn't sure if ralph had made introductions to Coralie, who oversees media relations  
… I could follow up with Ralph  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I know Coralie; I could coordinate with her  

**Ivan Herman:** let's do that.  

> *Karen Myers:* +1

**Bill Kasdorf:** could someone give me a heads up when that info goes out?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** it will be an email to the SC  

**Bill Kasdorf:** we should provide our contact emails to Luc, so he can send it  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Luc is on holiday  

**Bill Kasdorf:** we don't want to wait  
… will some other chair do that?  
… there was a sentiment that it should come officially from the leadership of the BG  

**Tzviya Siegman:** it's fine if it comes from you  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** it would be fine coming from you  

> *Ivan Herman:* b.t.w., I will also be out of reach starting Wednesday...

**Bill Kasdorf:** each person in coordination group have their own contacts, emails would come from many different people  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm also disappearing on Wednesday :)  

**Ivan Herman:** I'll give you access to the website repo while I'm away  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the next area is an MOU and SOW  
… usually these docs are between the org with the money and the contractor  
… in this case both are DAISY  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we were talking about MOU/SOW with DAISY  
… the plan is that the MOU, which will be lightweight  
… stating the general agreement  
… an agreement between SC and DAISY to protect both parties, outlined in the plan from DAISY  
… we could have SC sign it  
… the SOW is a schedule with deliverables, and when money gets released  
… so X dollars when EPUBCHeck supports EPUB 3.2, etc  
… we'll propose a start date  
… October 1  
… does this plan sound OK?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think Luc should sign  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I think that would good, but he'll need to check with his management  

**George Kerscher:** we would be anticipating getting staffed up Oct 1, but docs wouldn't formally be signed between the 24th and the 1st  

**Dave Cramer:** are we signing things before we have money?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we do have a substantial amount committed, and we expect more quickly  

**Richard Orme:** the amount that's pledged in the moment is more than the price of Phase 1  
… that's where we can get the go-ahead  
… if the pledges don't come through, I don't think we can kick off the work  
… this does encourage the pledgers :)  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** of the folks on the call who have gotten pledges, we don't think it's going to be hard, do we?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** garth is the only one on the call with a pledge, as many people are missing today  

**Garth Conboy:** we are good for it; it's just a process  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** then you can help us test the process by giving yourself an invoice  

**Garth Conboy:** I can be the guinea pig. I'll be surprised if it takes less than six weeks  

**Richard Orme:** this means that Oct 1 is at risk, because the funds might not yet be available  
… we can see how things were going, so maybe it's not completely gloomy  

**Richard Orme:** we want to avoid starting something and then pulling the plug  

**Tzviya Siegman:** this is a call to action for the rest of us to get those pledges in  

**George Kerscher:** is the MOU and SOW, is that sitting with Tzviya and Richard? Is the SOW tzviya and avneesh? Me? Richard?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** if someone wants to volunteer I'm happy to give it up  

**George Kerscher:** I don't think it's appropriate for me to do this  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I do have the Wiley templates for this. I can set up a call with Avneesh.  
… I think that covers everything with DAISY. Thank you, Richard! I'll be in touch about our next call.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** thanks from all of us!  

**Richard Orme:** thanks everyone!  

> *Dave Cramer:* (Richard leaves the call)

### 2. TPI membership transitions
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** as we're doing the outreach, let's keep in mind that we want to keep TPI members involved  
… we talked last time that there was a list of TPI members, which Ralph had?  
… any way we can get that list?  

**Karen Myers:** let me take that up again with Ralph. I don't see a problem.  
… Next week Ralph and I are meeting with some people in NY  
… we still have time in our schedules W-F next week  

**Ivan Herman:** Ralph was on a management retreat last week  

> *Dave Cramer:* (Liisa's Dog: bark)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** anything else around TPI membership?  

**Karen Myers:** what would be useful to hear is that, as we go to Japan, are there any other perspectives on business cases from the Japanese perspective?  
… I'm trying to finalize some messaging points for Alan, who will be at the workshop  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** when you're doing this outreach, do you start with  full membership, or do you start with just publishing?  

**Karen Myers:** both, depending on the audience  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think starting with publishing is better  
… the Japanese audience is very focused on EPUB 3, lots of what we did is for them  
… they're also reliant on ISO certification  
… they do have strong business needs  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Daihei and Yoshii-san are very supportive and eager to help

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** not at working group level, but practical stuff that they want  
… you could get them engaged on the BG and then expand  
… get them on the publishing case, then extend to web payments etc, new markets and direct sales  

**George Kerscher:** I've approached institute for museum and library services on hosting a conf on libraries, digipub, and a11y  
… they promised me a draft concept paper  
… the library community, in terms of what they are using for delivery of digital books, is an interesting arena  
… I'm not sure how that translates into w3c membership  
… our work is proactive in specs and development  
… and after the fact is ISO and NISO affirming what we've done  
… the groundbreaking work is at w3c  
… in the US the K-12 market is in digital publishing, but it's not as clear that they're focused on EPUB  
… and how these digital publications move into learning systems is an interesting topic  
… those are areas that should be of interest to a lot of people  
… and with WP that integration with online reading is front and center  

**Karen Myers:** thanks  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** A few conversations I've had with people who didn't come with us in the TPI world  
… orgs that didn't have time or their IDPF membership lapsed, they were afraid of paying back dues  
… I talked to someone with a vendor, who asked about conferences  
… the IDPF conference was good for them  
… they felt they were getting news, and they loved the conference, and they could connect with people  
… do we want to do a conference?  

#### 2.1. EPUB conference
{: #section2-1}

**Karen Myers:** I agree, I'm sorry we didn't do something for the fall  
… we should resurrect this idea  
… Jeff wants a publishing champion to drive and organize the community  
… we should bring this up  
… mapping out what kind of conference would be most relevant  
… . what would be our sweet spot to make vendors want to exhibit  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we need to be wary of conference overload. maybe we can partner or have a day at an existing conference  
… I like partnering with EDRlab  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to tzviya

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there is not an ebook conference in the US  
… DBW is about marketing  
… ebookcraft is in Toronto  

**Ivan Herman:** you mentioned ebookcraft, but isn't it possible to talk to them to make it bigger?  
… and they already have a certain practice  

> *George Kerscher:* a conference strategy should be developed.

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to George

> *Karen Myers:* +1 conference goals and strategy needed

**Dave Cramer:** ebookcraft is perfect. don't mess with it.  

**Ivan Herman:** we need to have a better idea of what we want to do.  
… people around us are the wrong people to organize a business-oriented conference  
… we have to decide what we want  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think we should figure out what we think people need  
… but what would vendors need?  
… it might not like what we did with IDPF  
… I don't think it's C-level  
… we need to make it effective for people in decision-making, or people up to their elbows  

**George Kerscher:** We're going to AHG and doing a track on EPUB  
… and we're developing presentations for CSUN  
… and this all about promotion and adoption of EPUB  

**Tzviya Siegman:** two comments  
… one thing that made IDPF successful was the BEA tie-in  
… there was lots of foot traffic for two events  
… 2nd: a conf about the work we do might be a fool's errand  
… people are going to focused conferences, on subjects like A11Y or UX  
… not just talking about standards or EPUB in general  
… we could tell vendors to find their niche  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** anything else to cover today, or talk about in the BG?  

**Ivan Herman:** at some point, we will have address the issues about the relationship between BG and SC  
… but it's closely related to the publishing champion  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** agreed  
… email me if you have agenda items for BG on Tuesday  

**RRSAgent:** draft minutes  

---
