---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-11-30
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-11-30
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-11-30

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2018Nov/0050.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/11/30-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Tzviya Siegman, Ivan Herman, Dave Cramer, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Ralph Swick, Luc Audrain, Bill Kasdorf, Wendy Reid, Rachel Comerford, George Kerscher, Jeff Jaffe, Garth Conboy

**Regrets:** Daihei Shiohama, Jun-ichi Yoshii

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUBCheck status
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** let's start  
… who knows about EPUBCheck?  
… they have reached milestone 1; EPUBCheck 4.1 was released this week.  
… many thanks to all who helped  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/releases/tag/v4.1.0](https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/releases/tag/v4.1.0)

**Luc Audrain:** we have enough money to pay for phase 1  
… I can ask for payment to be made  

> *Rachel Comerford:* no objections!

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** it's OK to pay  

**Luc Audrain:** we will ask DAISY to pay DAISY :)  
… fundraising status: we have almost $70k now. We're still waiting for some payments. Haven't received this week's report yet  
… let's keep evangelizing  

**Ivan Herman:** I was wondering if there should be a blog post about phase 1  

**Luc Audrain:** I did a post on w3c blog  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/11/epubcheck-intermediate-4-1-release/](https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/11/epubcheck-intermediate-4-1-release/)

**George Kerscher:** can we prepare something that can be emailed to various groups--BISG, for example  
… it wasn't  posted to the PBG list either  

**Luc Audrain:** I'll email PBG  

**Rachel Comerford:** can you forward the fundraising updates from DAISY so we can see who's be donating? It will help us track who we should be talking to.  

**Luc Audrain:** will do  

### 2. W3C membership discussion
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** re: membership. Any more about the end of TPI? And the Q of the publishing champion?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Karen has been working on membership the most  
… she's converted a few more TPI members to BG members  
… and some smaller members to full members  
… in Japan, we have two large Japanese firms who've converted to full members  
… in terms of the publishing champion, there were conversations at TPAC about this, but it has not been resolved  
… people in Japan asked who it was, and I said "me" for now :)  

**Luc Audrain:** any questions?  

**Luc Audrain:** I had a Q about bringing TPI members to BG members  
… if they can't afford full membership, they can be business members  

**Jeff Jaffe:** when we did the merger, we tried to estimate where we would end up—how many TPI as BG members, and how many as regular members  
… our expectation at the time was that TPI would mostly become business members and only a few full members  
… we're probably ahead of expectations  
… on full members, but behind expectations on business group memberships  
… we even lost some who did not convert to TPI  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the entry to BG is not easy or obvious  
… the email only links to full members  
… the publishing home page is not easy to understand  
… we should make the steps to becoming a business member more obvious  

**Jeff Jaffe:** that's great feedback. Can you summarize that in an email to Karen and I?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** will do  

### 3. AB Meeting and publishing meetup
{: #section3}

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_Ri-6KT5Kfg5HPYzKTKvlWUswi4dgz3UGd7jrpivxXE/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_Ri-6KT5Kfg5HPYzKTKvlWUswi4dgz3UGd7jrpivxXE/edit?usp=sharing)

**Tzviya Siegman:** we're proposing to have a meetup with the AB during the AB meeting in NYC area in January  
… doesn't have to be formal; I've started on an agenda  
… could just be a conversation with talking points  
… we wouldn't expect people to travel to this  

**Jeff Jaffe:** that covers it  
… a few years ago the TAG started having a dev meetup during their F2F meetings  
… the AB thought that was a good idea  
… we try to find groups in the cities we visit that may be interested in general governance issues  
… since we were in NYC, and it's the hub of publishing in the US, it made sense  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we need a location.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we might be able to get a fancy room  

**Tzviya Siegman:** should we say PRH?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** sure  

**Garth Conboy:** is this just AB and publishers, or do we want folks from this group? Who's invited?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** it would be helpful if you and Wendy and others could be there  

**Luc Audrain:** will you send invitations? Do you want us to bring you names?  
… for HBG, our former AC Ryan should be invited  

**Tzviya Siegman:** should we announce this to the BG and the WG? Should it be invitation-only?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** how many seats?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can do most anything  

**Jeff Jaffe:** from an AB point of view were are flexible  
… in London we had 15 devs, in Berlin we had 200.  

**Luc Audrain:** Alan Bird will be in Paris next week?  

**Ivan Herman:** I think so  

**Luc Audrain:** the questions in the agenda doc are good, important questions  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we'll need to do a bit more planning.  

### 4. Other general events
{: #section4}

**Jeff Jaffe:** linking the last two topics, AB meetup and converting TPI members  
… one thing that I'm hearing about why TPIs are not staying in BG  
… while the spec work has transitioned well, like EPUB and WPUB  
… it's not clear the community stuff and the business-focused stuff has transitioned well  
… for example the IDPF conference at BEA  
… how do we make sure people see the business value of the PBG as a community  
… maybe that could be a theme of the AB meetup  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Jeff. I've heard the same comments.

**Luc Audrain:** it's true that we haven't organized an event like that  
… in 2018  
… should we make something for 2019?  
… there's a digital publishing summit in Paris organized by EDRLab but that's not w3c  
… should we do something in the fall? as we did at TPAC SFO?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** jeff, to your point  
… there was always a level of membership in IDPF, spend a few thousand dollars and get a bit of cachet  
… they didn't go to meetings, there was little involvement, it's harder to spend the money  
… I think it's a bit of an argument for 3.2 REC  
… we talked about a conference a few months ago, and people were largely against it  
… are people missing the conference, or the cachet?  

**Garth Conboy:** the cachet question is an interesting one. I thought this would be better with W3C  
… re: conference; it's fine to do EDRLab or TPAC, but that's not where the publishing community hangs out  
… maybe we should consider something at BEA  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I don't have an answer about conferences  
… I was reflecting back what I've been hearing  
… it's a good question for the BG  

> *Garth Conboy:* Maybe something at BEA would help W3C with publisher member (collection) outreach too.

**Jeff Jaffe:** I'm just sharing some of what I'm hearing  

**Bill Kasdorf:** IDPF membership had cachet in trade publishing and people who serve trade publishing  
… but w3c membership matters more for people outside those groups  

**Luc Audrain:** the EDRLab summit is may or June, which would conflict with BEA  
… I agree with Garth that book fair is much more reasonable place for this than a technology event like TPAC  
… maybe Frankfurt in the fall?  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** it's the biggest fair in Europe  
… it's already too late for May/June anyway  
… we should decide in the near future  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* lots of US people go to Frankfurt

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to dauwhe

**Dave Cramer:** IDPF/BEA was terrible  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to Dave

> *Ralph Swick:* Dave: we shouldn't just re-create what the old IDPF conference was

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 dauwhe

**Wendy Reid:** conferences put a demand on travel  
… there's a lot more we can do in the grassroots  
… we can do meetups, tweets, articles  
… we could have a meetup in Toronto  

> *Dave Cramer:* +1

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 wendyreid

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to wendy

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Some people liked BEA  
… perhaps we should have a presence at existing conferences  
… and then focus on meetups  
… we could send one person to EDRLab  
… we could have one person at BEA in some other track  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to liisamk

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** one person at Frankfurt. Telling people that w3c is where the work is happening  

**George Kerscher:** we at DAISY are having great success promoting EPUB  
… and W3C adds credibility to the standard  
… at AHG in Denver two weeks ago, huge awareness of EPUB was building  
… we have CSUN coming up, where we have several presentations  
… in the disability community we're doing really well  
… I don't see those people getting into the PBG, but we're engaging them in other ways  
… EPUB has much more engagement in higher ed than it did six months ago  

**Rachel Comerford:** +1 to wendyreid  
… at this point a grassroots effort will bring more value than a conference  
… we need more handholding than what a conference allows  
… and focus on our verticals and our local geography  
… and adding to that by proselytizing at conferences  
… I disagree about w3c being something that higher ed folks are aware of  
… they mostly not familiar with w3c  
… or only know wcag  
… it doesn't occur to them that we want to be involved  
… one thing I'll say about Frankfurt--it's great for trade, but it's not big for education publishers  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to the grassroots approach

**Ivan Herman:** we seem to be converging on Wendy's idea  
… let's remind ourselves that it's a massive effort to create an event for a large numbers of people  
… IDPF piggybacked on BEA for a reason  
… these are major undertakings, and we might not have the resources to do it  
… Wendy's approach is more manageable, more possible  

**Luc Audrain:** I like the idea of regional events  
… could we have a unique preparation, a unique task force, which could go to regional book fairs  
… Frankfurt does have education stuff  
… we could have a task force to prepare the content of a conference, and then apply it to different regions. Frankfurt in Europe.  
… there's a question of money  

**Bill Kasdorf:** My point was that W3C is more relevant to edu publishers than IDPF  
… I like the idea of, rather than spending time on a single conference, getting on the program where various sectors are is important  
… we're already past deadlines for some conferences next year  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Luc, you asked if we should have a task force on regional conferences  
… and that made me step back and think about what we're doing  
… going back to the 100s of former IDPF members, and asking them what you were getting from IDPF, and why hasn't that transitioned into interest in W3C?  
… maybe it could be that the transition from EPUB 2 to EPUB 3 is done. But I don't know why these people dropped off.  

**Rachel Comerford:** I would speculate...  
… there is an understanding that w3c is for developers, and the technically minded, and they don't understand much about the business group  

**Luc Audrain:** if for Europe we are trying to do something in Frankfurt, what help could I get from W3C?  
… how could it be organized? This is not for this meeting for it, but we should figure it out.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Ivan is in Europe, and Alan is spending half his time there, and there's European staff  

**Luc Audrain:** we can talk about that in the future  
… any more questions?  
… we had more topics about the different groups  

### 5. EPUB 3.2 task force
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** the task force about REC track is still discussing  
… we have other issues about priorities  
… the 3.2 spec is being improved by feedback from EPUBCheck  
… we can have a final report of 3.2 when EPUBCheck is done  
… I was wondering about bug reporting  
… and there are new CGs, with BD/Manga  
… we talked about some issues around calls  
… especially with timing for Japan etc  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we had the WG chairs call; I'll be reaching out to new members from Japan about a welcome call at an asia-friendly time and then a regular asia-friendly call  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** so we'd have some calls at US/Euro friendly times, and others at other times  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we need to get a feel for what people want  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** should we do this across groups?  

**Luc Audrain:** it's a difficult question  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I don't solutions for time zones  
… I met with Makoto in Japan, he was describing in detail how Japanese publishers were avoiding CSS writing modes and using bitmaps  
… I shared with him how we might finesse the issue with REC track  

**Dave Cramer:** in the REC TF, Makoto has pushed objection on features removed form EPUB spec  

**Jeff Jaffe:** we're working on addressing the concerns. F2F discussions were helpful.  
… it's just one piece of a larger puzzle.  

**Luc Audrain:** we are out of time. Thanks to all. We're working on an agenda for the next BG call.  

---
