---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-05-04
title: Publishing Steering Committee Telco — 2018-05-04
---

# Publishing Steering Committee Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-05-04

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/597C76CE-DA1C-4187-AF2E-C85B8349DD26@penguinrandomhouse.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/05/04-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** George Kerscher, Tzviya Siegman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Rachel Comerford, Dave Cramer, Ivan Herman, Rick Johnson, Bill Kasdorf, Garth Conboy

**Regrets:** Luc Audrain, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Bill McCoy

**Guests:**

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Garth Conboy

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. ebupcheck RFP draft
{: #section1}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Some comments have been made.  
… More work?  
… Luc has suggested some updates  
… Luc asked who will do evaluation and what will be the criteria  

> *Rick Johnson:* is there a link to the epubcheck RFP draft?

**Ivan Herman:** can't provide draft terms draft terms  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1g8Jt7M-at7Wa7vPI8G_hKMC6wsIr7ikR9Rq68FAXy0Q/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1g8Jt7M-at7Wa7vPI8G_hKMC6wsIr7ikR9Rq68FAXy0Q/edit?usp=sharing)

**Tzviya Siegman:** will reach out to Wendy re possible draft term; perhaps in Berlin.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** do we need more folks to evaluate the RPF?  

> *Rachel Comerford:* Garth: I think this group can evaluate and when it's done the PBG can see it to get more interest

**Garth Conboy:** I think this group vetting RPF is good; should be shared with BG — perhaps leads will come from there.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Romain should look at RPF… perhaps conflict of interest if DAISY bidding… but should be okay anyhow.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** who’s this agreement really between, and we need to finalize funding handling.  
… W3M doesn’t want staff to solicit funds.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** call w/ Ralph; W3M won’t do fundraising, but will host platform for said collection.  
… Bill or Jeff maybe to set up, but not fundraise themselves.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I will propose such a structure.  

**George Kerscher:** Great that W3C will be catcher for funds; but, how much overhead does this cost?  Better not be 52%!  

**Ivan Herman:** Veronica should be involved with money stuff.  
… discuss cost reduction.  

**George Kerscher:** is Web Foundation an option too?  

**Ivan Herman:** WF is pretty darn separate.  

**Garth Conboy:** EDRLab possible?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** could be an issue if they are bidding?  
… Thus, W3C could be better.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** need to see if there really is overhead.  

**Ivan Herman:** Veronica could answer that.  

**Ivan Herman:** if I get specific questions around this, I can likely chase down answers (from Veronica, et al).  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** will get questions organized, George will review.  

### 2. Manga Tokyo workshop
{: #section2}

**Ivan Herman:** no update; has been some discussions… Bill, Florian, Luc, Makoto, et al.  
… nothing fresh to update.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See also [BillM's mail](https://www.w3.org/mid/000201d3e3c0$adac42d0$0904c870$@w3.org)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** good topic for that meeting as it’s APAC-ish timezone  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to dauwhe

**David:** nervous that this might create funky spec that nobody will implement  

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what if there is a 3.2+ recommendation out of this?  

**David:** if requirements come up should come to CG, hopefully with lots of implantation interest  

**Ivan Herman:** Workshop is just that, not a spec development effort  
… CG can decide what if anything to do with any requirements.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we’ll see what the update Tuesday yields  

### 3. Kobo's review of WP
{: #section3}

> *Ivan Herman:* survey: [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/att-0033/Wep_Pub_feedback.pdf](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/att-0033/Wep_Pub_feedback.pdf)

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/0033.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/0033.html)

**Ivan Herman:** Interesting.  Unclear who’s providing the data.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** only 40% were following WP work  
… lots of EPUB 2 still  

**Rick:** not that many responses (only 10).  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Could be indicative of wider PR campaign for WP efforts.  But, not ready to do that yet.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Liisa

**Ivan Herman:** Good that Kobo did it, and could/should be done again after more PR.  

**Bill:** BISG can do this sort of stuff too.  

**Rick:** if we were to do this (mostly edu), we’d get mostly “this is why we hired you”.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** unclear what the target (level in org) this went to.  Hard to find the person to answer this sort of stuff.  

### 4. epubtest.org
{: #section4}

**George Kerscher:** Last week on BISG call… no solid solid plans for mainstream (non A11y) testing.  
… got okay to bifurcate mainstream and A11Y  
… DAISY can move forward on A11Y  
… for EPUB 3.2 testing (if any) likely within W3C, not epubtest.org  
… DAISY would archive of mainstream pieces (of epubtest.org) for A11Y focus  
… issue of domain and hosting  
… could move to DAISY  
… Need consensus on what’s the story.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Remainder that BISG hasn’t done hosting/development work — role was support only  
… Technical aspects of mainstream testing belong with W3C  
… timing is a concern… W3C will be aways out  
… Agrees with George (as Brian @ BISG).  Bifurcation okay for now.  Where (if anywhere) does mainstream go for now.  

**Geroge:** this is one asset to be transferred to W3C.  That’s still in legal limbo.  

**Rick:** BISG: mainstream testing is pretty dead/stale.  
… process is broken  

**Dave:** from CG’s perspective… will need tests for spec (3.2), should be on W3C  

**Bill Kasdorf:** +1.  BISG should promote facilitation, not technical stuff  

**Ivan Herman:** What does it entail moving to W3C?  

**Geroge:** DB was created for folks running tests… moved from original grid.  

> *Rick Johnson:* general assumption for moving this is that W3C needs to have a version of [https://caniuse.com/](https://caniuse.com/) for EPUB.... is that a valid assumption?

**Geroge:** the A11Y side is getting updated  

**Bill Kasdorf:** nobody administering mainstream piece.   DB still exists.  

**Garth Conboy:** But is very stale.  

**Rachel Comerford:** Could this be merged into best practices in CG?  

**Garth Conboy:** Utility of mainstream RS testing has long past  

**Dave:** Best practices are a better direction.  

**Garth Conboy:** EPUB spec testing is a different animal that could/should get done in the W3C  

**Ivan Herman:** The W3C system team is small and restrictive — not lots of resources for likes of maintaining of issues, data, best practices.  Be real!  :-)  

**Dave:** kill mainstream, maybe keep tests for future work.  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 to not moving the database but grabbing some of the tests, etc

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Like Rick’s “caniuse” for EPUB (above)  

**Bill Kasdorf:** can DAISY keep hosting the A11Y and pull plug on mainstream?  

**George Kerscher:** yes  
… need to deal with domain ownership  
… could move to DAISY  

**Ivan Herman:** That’s the least of the problems. Can’ make commitment to use of system team resources.  

**Garth Conboy:** Plan: mainstream stuff to be archived snd shut down; DAISY to move ahead with A11Y stuff; W3C/CG has already grabbed tests.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** need to run by Brian at BISG  
… should be proposal, not yet plan, until Brian buys in.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Outta time!  
… other agenda items for Tuesday APAC-time call.  

> *Garth Conboy:* Happy birthday Liisa!

> *Tzviya Siegman:* :)

> ***Resolution #1: Liisa *must* have a happy birthday.***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Liisa *must* have a happy birthday.
