---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-07-31
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2018-07-31
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-07-31

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Jul/0015.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/07/31-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Dave Cramer, Luc Audrain, Bill Kasdorf, George Kerscher, Ric Wright, Ivan Herman, Garth Conboy, Junko Kamata, Tzviya Siegman, Julie Blair, Daihei Shiohama, Laurent Le Meur

**Regrets:** Wolfgang Schindler, Avneesh Singh

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Ric Wright

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Dave Cramer:* RRSAgent: make logs public

> *Ric Wright:* scribenick rkwright

**Julie Blair:** new attendee from SAGE Publishing  
… XML architect  

### 1. EPUB3 Roadmap
{: #section1}

> *Ric Wright:* Luc Adrain:  The agenda has a number of EPUB3 items

**Julie Blair:** It is time to start working on 3.2, which includes the CG  

**Dave Cramer:** We, the CG, are comfortable with the current spec  
… . Our intent is to query the community and get feedback and feed that to the BG  
… The CG is also reviewing the spec. Rachel has assigned sections to all the members.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Can we put the draft in the IRC?  

**Dave Cramer:** Not so easy as there are 6 or 7 parts to the spec.  Please read as much as you can  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-spec.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-spec.html)

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-contentdocs.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-contentdocs.html)

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-packages.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-packages.html)

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-ocf.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-ocf.html)

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-changes.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-changes.html)

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-overview.html](https://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-overview.html)

### 2. epubcheck
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** EPUBCheck:  We are working on this.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** We have received responses from several parties.  
… We are reviewing the proposals and we will be announcing who has been accepted by the end of August  
… We are preparing a website (W3C) to manage the fund-raising process  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Please let me know when the decision is final so we can manage the announcement and our committee members can manage the process  
… Daihel  is poised to manage the process from his end  

**Luc Audrain:** Will there be any W3C input on this?  

**Ivan Herman:** Yes, there will be support from the communication team  

**Luc Audrain:** When will the fund-raising announcement be public?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Before the end of August  

**Garth Conboy:** Hopefully, we will go out with the fund-raising BEFORE the end of August, i.e. not tied to the announcement of the "winner"  

**Luc Audrain:** We are working on a document we call "EPUB 2 Sunset"  
… The goal is to convince people to adopt EPUB 3 and not continue to work with or use EPUB 2  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Joshua Talent and others are part of a BISG Content Structure Committee WG that is working with the industry on a similar effort, so please coordinate with them  

### 3. Web Publication draft published
{: #section3}

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-wpub-20180726/](https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/WD-wpub-20180726/)

**Luc Audrain:** New draft of Web Publication has been released  

**Ivan Herman:** Yes, there is a new draft and it is quite significant  
… It rolls some of the specs into one, which makes it easier to understand  
… The manifest has been significantly modified to make it more amenable to Web Publications  
… It has also has been worked to adapt more closely to schema.org patterns.  
… We need as much feedback as possible.  So please review and send us all your feedback.  
… We are currently soliciting implementors to implement the spec so we can gather concrete feedback  
… .  We are also reviewing and updating the use-cases.  

**Luc Audrain:** Note that the WG is also looking for concrete use-cases  

**Luc Audrain:** We propose a summer break.  The next meeting will be 28 August  
… And that's all folks!  

---
