---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-09-25
title: Publishing Business Group Telecon — 2018-09-25
---

# Publishing Business Group Telecon — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-09-25

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Sep/0002.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/09/25-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Wolfgang Schindler, Avneesh Singh, Dave Cramer, Luc Audrain, Bill Kasdorf, Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Karen Myers, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Julie Blair, Murata Makoto, Julian Calderazi, Dmitry Markushevich, Leslie Hulse

**Regrets:** Rachel Comerford, Jens, Rick Johnson, Ric Wright, Brian O'Leary, Garth Conboy, Jens Klingelhöfer, Tzviya Siegman, Laurent Le Meur

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---

### 1. EPUB 3.2 status
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** let's start  
… news on EPUB 3 Road Map  

**Dave Cramer:**: almost done
… formal approval of CG next meeting
… final CG note to be published
… final CG meeting possibly this Thursday  
… then will ask for approval from BG  

**Bill Kasdorf:** the discussion of the spec was in the singular  
… will it become a single doc?  

**Dave Cramer:** no  

> *Murata Makoto:* I am wondering if w3c can provide testimonials

> *Murata Makoto:* Sorry.  My microphone is not working.

**Ivan Herman:** to think of what Makoto is talking about...  
… when RECs are published, if we had a press release around it, we would collect testimonials from the members saying how happy they are that it was published  
… the question is, what kind of communication will we do around 3.2?  
… we will have to discuss with Ralph and Coralie  
… I don't think we will do press releases these days  
… but we need some blogging, and we can use the home page of publishing@w3c  
… for testimonials  
… we have some now from the merger  
… so we could do something similar with 3.2 on the p@w3c home page  

> *Murata Makoto:* Yes, let's make some noise.

> *Murata Makoto:* I do not want be ignored.

**Luc Audrain:** the communication around 3.2 is important  
… we need to think about it  
… we are pushing a lot about epubcheck fundraising  
… one issue is that it will validate epub 3.2  
… so we need to keep the momentum on epub 3.2  

**Ivan Herman:** it may be worth getting together on a separate telco with ralph, ivan, coralie, and the chairs to talk about communication  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to ivan's telco

**Luc Audrain:** I was not thinking only of w3c, but of the external task force, etc  

**Ivan Herman:** the more the merrier  

### 2. epubcheck fundraising
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** about epubcheck fundraising  
… the w3c page has been launched  
… do we know already if funds have been collected?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** or at least pledged?  

**Luc Audrain:** one way we can push is by invoice  
… some companies may ask for an invoice  

**George Kerscher:** everything is up, we have had some commitments, and the early committers have processed their donations. No money have been received yet. It's in process.  

**Karen Myers:** I did have a conversation with a company that was interested in contributing  
… I wanted clarification on the landing page being public  
… and they asked about benefits for different levels of contribution  

**Luc Audrain:** the visibility can be chosen during the pledge process. It can anonymous or visible with logo.  
… I don't know if size of logo is proportional of amount of donation  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* size of logo related to amount is what it says on the page

**Karen Myers:** where will the logo appear?  

**Luc Audrain:** it will appear on epubcheck web page  

**Luc Audrain:** we talked about that  

**Karen Myers:** if someone could follow up, that would be great  

**Ivan Herman:** it's not clear to me, as I was on holiday  
… has there been some sort of more public announcement?  
… all I did was set up a website which links to the payment page  
… has there been a blog or announcement?  
… the other thing is, on w3c page, there is no preparation for any logo  
… I don't know where these logos would appear  
… and there is no reference on the home page at publishing @ w3c  
… maybe Tzviya and Rachel know about this  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* there was announcement to PWG and CG and not yet a blog or larger announcement

**Luc Audrain:** we have said in the page, that contributors can be acknowledged on the epubcheck home page  
… this is said in the w3c fundraising web page  
… so there is an explicit mention of an epubcheck home page  
… the size of the logo depends on the level of the contribution  

**Ivan Herman:** what is the URL?  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [http://validator.idpf.org](http://validator.idpf.org)

**Ivan Herman:** that has the idpf logo and a fairly rudimental content, geared as users of the checkers mainly  

**Luc Audrain:** there's an epubcheck page on github  

> *Luc Audrain:* [https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/WorkPlan](https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/WorkPlan)

**Bill Kasdorf:** the announcement went out to a number of orgs via the external task force  
… including SSP and NISO  
… I posted an announcement to the SSP industry events link  
… and I heard from Todd at NISO, who will put that in their next newsletter  
… but he commented that it doesn't look like it has much support from publishers  
… I told him it just hadn't shown up yet  
… so maintaining that fundraising web page is important  
… his conclusion was publishers weren't supporting this  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** that's a great point, Bill  
… it's just a chicken and egg problem  
… Luc made an important point about 3.2  
… we should communicate that 3.2 is about to be released, and that the epubcheck effort is to ensure validation of 3.2, so adoption can be quick and painless  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 about EPUB 3.2 announcement

**Ivan Herman:** what's the action now?  

**Luc Audrain:** we have to figure out if we stay with epubcheck web page as github  
… we can figure that out with Tzviya and Rachel  
… and there is a process of adding contributors inside the webpage  

**Ivan Herman:** that's the question to me  
… what I put up is the call to contributions. It's not the epubcheck home page  
… I'm afraid of losing the baby :)  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** ivan, we need to have a conversation with the dev team about where the landing is  
… it needs its own landing page, and needs to move out of idpf world  

**Avneesh Singh:** the marketing page for fundraising  
… this is the highest priority  
… in the dev plan we've proposed a website for the user, with documentation and downloads  
… maybe the marketing page can be on the w3c side  
… we should get rid of old IPDF page  
… we should have marketing page on w3c  
… the rest of this is in the proposal  

**Ivan Herman:** who is responsible for all that?  

**Avneesh Singh:** these are two things. the dev team is responsible for the user-facing page (with docs)  
… the marketing piece falls on the management of epubcheck, which means Tzviya, etc  

**Luc Audrain:** the question... we should be able to add  contributors to the marketing page at the end  
… I can do that on a weekly or fortnight basis  
… how can we be made aware of contributors? Can we get something from George?  

**George Kerscher:** I've asked Richard to provide an update to the SC on a regular basis, and he said he would be doing that  
… how often do we want an update? Weekly?  
… Weekly for the first month, and then monthly?  
… tell us what you want  

**Luc Audrain:** weekly to start with  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 weekly updates for now

**George Kerscher:** I'll send an email to Richard after this call  

**Bill Kasdorf:** we should clarify with richard... I think any time we have a commitment from a publisher, we shouldn't wait until we have the money to acknowledge  

**Luc Audrain:** more comments?  
… development is not started  

**Avneesh Singh:** what we conveyed to Tzviya is that as soon as you have confidence that you have sufficient pledges in one month's time  

**Luc Audrain:** we need to be informed by Richard, then we share this in the PBGSC, then the roadmap task force will inform you about the commitments  

**Luc Audrain:** more comments?  
… if you have issues and further needs for epubcheck, please raise them in epubcheck's github issues  

#### 2.1. image resolution check & epubcheck
{: #section2-1}

**Luc Audrain:** there was discussion about image resolution check in epubcheck  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I raised this last week with a couple of people  
… image quality and resolution is a big topic for a lot of publishers  
… ebook reading systems are evaluating in different ways  
… Amazon was asking if epubcheck could warn people about it  
… should this be in a future version of epubcheck?  
… Tzviya pointed out that we might not be talking about a warning, it's more informational  
… a file wouldn't fail, but would tell a content producer that your image is too small or too low-res to work in a reading system  
… is that interesting to people?  

**Dave Cramer:** this would be an expansion of the role of epubcheck  

**Luc Audrain:** note that Amazon provides the kindlegen tool which performs this role for Amazon  
… we use kindlegen not to produce files, but as a checker tool  
… we use epubcheck first to check conformance to the spec, then we put it through kindlegen to see if it meets amazon's requirements in their closed system  
… I think we should keep the dedication of the tools to the formats they are supposed to validate  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** for the US market, amazon does not use kindlegen in the way they did in the past  
… they provide kindle previewer, with qc functions  
… I raised this issue because it came from them as a suggestion  
… and I want to pull them closer to the epub world, and make sure we can still send them epub files  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I'm of two minds  
… as we try to get epub embedded in more sectors like journals, etc. these requirements will be quite varied  
… because EPUB was originally used by retailers, we made it easy for them to use epubcheck  
… there's a difference between a model and a spec  
… maybe we should encourage each retailer to provide such info  
… and we should keep epubcheck pristine  

**George Kerscher:** A couple things  
… there's best practices  
… what would we recommend?  
… we should look at that  
… we're planning a call with Brian from BISG on the future of epubtest.org  
… we want to harmonize best practices with a tool  

> *Dave Cramer:* (audio gaps)

**Dave Cramer:** there used to be epubpreflight to check non-spec issues  

**Avneesh Singh:** the first priority of epubcheck is to support 3.2  
… and we have to deal with the fragmented test suite  
… only then could we start looking at such things. That might not be for a year.  
… expanding the role of epubcheck should be a higher-level conversation  

**Luc Audrain:** thanks for reminding us of priorities  
… it could be an issue in the github  

### 3. TPAC planning
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** we still have many more agenda items. what are the priorities?  
… should we start to think about TPAC planning?  
… there is a BG session joint with the WG  

> *Luc Audrain:* dauwhe: provide business perspective to the WG

**Luc Audrain:** could it be informal?  
… should we open a document to suggest ideas?  

**Ivan Herman:** there is no rule for that, but when we discussed it with chairs, we didn't expect a detailed document  
… it's a general thing that can extend beyond the joint meeting  
… the WG does need more feedback on business  
… the active part of the WG is mostly technically oriented  
… the WG does need guidelines and feedback, which we haven't really received yet  
… but perhaps we need to talk about how the groups relate in the future  
… I don't think a detailed doc from the BG is necessary  

**Luc Audrain:** the general idea is what Dave said--provide business perspective to the WG  
… during the F2F there will be a session, a slot in time, where people in the BG who are not in the WG would join?  

**Ivan Herman:** any members of the BG are welcome to join as observers  
… please come :)  
… on the agenda, we do have a specific slot, perhaps Tuesday afternoon, where these issues should be discussed  

**Luc Audrain:** we will have to play a dual role as a member of the BG and WG  
… Will many people here be at TPAC?  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* liisamk will be in Lyon

> *Dave Cramer:* +1 to Lyon

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I will not be at TPAC

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 i

> *George Kerscher:* George will be there

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* I will not be able to attend - unfortunately

> *Avneesh Singh:* +1 Lyon

> *Julian Calderazi:* -1 Lyon

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* -1 Lyon

> *Julie Blair:* -1 Lyon

**Luc Audrain:** we have five minutes left  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* -1 Lyon

### 4. epub preservation
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** does anyone have thoughts on EPUB preservation  

**Murata Makoto:** I believe the ballot has been closed, and Japan voted no, but I don't know the result of the ballot  
… it will take a bit of time, but results should be announced in a couple of weeks  
… I would note that the Japanese proposal for a11y was well-received at the meeting in Seattle  
… and so we will prepare a draft of EPUB a11y as soon as possible  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* the ballot for PDTS ISO/IEC 22424-1 EPUB Preservation - Part 1 doesn't close until Thursday 27 September 2018 at 11:59 EDT

**George Kerscher:** I submitted to NISO a vote of no, with similar comments about referencing EPUB 3.1, and that it should be rewritten for 3.2. And it never mentioned a11y.  
… but I don't know how NISO ended up voting.  

### 5. Tokyo workshop
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** re: tokyo workshop. We are preparing a report.  
… the web page of the schedule has links to the presentations  
… and we are editing the minutes  
… it will be available soon  
… it was a fruitful and interesting workshop, with 70 people registered  
… but only 55 attended?  

**Ivan Herman:** almost seventy were there, and some last-minute people. 68 or 70.  
… we can have an item on a future agenda.  
… and we are out of time.  

> *Ivan Herman:* -> schedule of the workshop with links: [https://www.w3.org/2018/publayout-workshop/schedule.html](https://www.w3.org/2018/publayout-workshop/schedule.html)

> *Murata Makoto:* I think that the WS was a tremendous success.

**Ivan Herman:** thanks everyone!  

> *Murata Makoto:* Thanks, Ivan

**Ivan Herman:** we have our next call in a fortnight. I'll be at Frankfurt, so will not be able to chair.  
… . thanks everyone!  

---
