---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-06-05
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2018-06-05
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-06-05

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/06/05-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Avneesh Singh, Luc Audrain, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Ivan Herman, Dave Cramer, Ric Wright, Wolfgang Schindler, Bill McCoy, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Laurent Le Meur, Tzviya Siegman, Garth Conboy, Rick Johnson, Bernadette Shade, Paul Belfanti, Rachel Comerford, Dan Sanicola, Brian O'Leary, Bill Kasdorf, Jens Klingenlhöfer, Leslie Hulse, Julian Calderazi

**Regrets:**

**Guests:**

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Brian O'Leary, Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Brian O'Leary:* New member: Bernadette Shade, ACM

**Bernadette Shade:** ACM begins to publish in HTML, very interested in accessibility issues

> *Tzviya Siegman:* welcome Bernadette!

**Ivan Herman:** It was a good meeting; thanks to Kobo for hosting  
… right path; have to define a manifest; decision that manifest in JSON LD  
… schema.org plays a critical role; alignment with it makes sense  
… have to do more work with schema.org; add sections on affordances  
… long discussion on WP, PWP, EPUB4  
… Web Packaging timeline not clear  
… PWP may remain conceptual entity for a while  
… for EPUB4, may use the same packaging format as EPUB; not decided  

**Garth Conboy:** also closed a number of issues at the end, good meeting, 20+ people, feels like progress  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Ivan and Garth summary is a good one  

**Bill Kasdorf:** notes Tzviya is writing a blog post on the meeting  

### 1. Workshop in Tokyo
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** introduces topic, Tokyo workshop  
… Building program, 18-19 September in Tokyo, complex layout focus.  
… still under construction, consensus on content (included, excluded)  
… cochair include Luc, Florian, Makoto  
… take care to ensure diverse program committee. Need more women; solicited Laurent's input  
… working on better representation  
… next steps are to push the draft, validation from w3c management, then release to the BG  

**Bill McCoy:** ask for expressions of interest, topics; program committee will review and choose  
… program not set, hoping to release in the next month or so  
… request for proposals in the next few days  

### 2. Epubcheck
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Working on an RFP now  
… finalize the RFP soon  

**Laurent Le Meur:** need the conditions for selection; when payment will take place, procedure for getting funding to contractor  

**Luc Audrain:** not precise answers to these questions raised by Laurent yet  

**Tzviya Siegman:** full RFP has not been disseminated, as some reviewers might also bid, creating a conflict of interest  
… fundraising is not part of the RFP; will proceed in parallel  

**Laurent Le Meur:** timeline; will there be a delay between start of work, fundraising, payment schedules  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** not sure what delays of payment means. RFP goes out mid-June, likely, with 30 days to respond.  
… Request that respondents fill in anything missing in the RFP  
… not trying to create a perfect RFP  
… once the RFP goes out, funding will be pursued in parallel  
… need to know the budget first, before we can finish fund raising  

**Laurent Le Meur:** adds several items that he had raised earlier  

**Garth Conboy:** question is, if we pick a winner next month, will we have enough money on hand to start?  
… hopefully, yes  

**Tzviya Siegman:** valid concern, typically in SOW, not an RFP. Not a contract  

**Luc Audrain:** almost finished; people will be able to react.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** RFP almost ready to go, next few weeks (mid June)  

**Luc Audrain:** any other concerns? [none]  
… Next topic: thread about promoting EPUB3 adoption  
… asks Liisa for guidance  

### 3. promotion for EPUB3 adoption
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** after the WG meeting, discussion of regional uptake of EPUB3  
… does the regional variation help us think about how to get EPUB adopted?  
… does it tell us where to focus  

**Bill Kasdorf:** mention the work of the external coordination TF, lagging with other events, but this could be addressed there. Valid?  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to BillK

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** great to take on  

**Bill Kasdorf:** BISG is doing this kind of work in the U.S. market  
… try to do something more systematic. Surveys, etc.  
… defers to co-chairs, not on the call.  

**Luc Audrain:** with respect to survey: some sort of geographical adoption figures?  
… notes some data available in France. Ben Dugas (Kobo) previously presented EPUB2/3 update  

**Bill Kasdorf:** start with informal sounding out of other organizations, followed by surveys or other data-gathering efforts  
… likely that other orgs may not have data  
… conversations to get some data, not wait for survey results  

**Tzviya Siegman:** in Brazil, little acceptance of EPUB 3, but we had a participant at the F2F meeting, good possible contact  

**Luc Audrain:** should we measure production, acceptance, or delivery of a format  
… basis for a white paper?  

**Ric Wright:** explains interest in white paper  

**Luc Audrain:** willing to support/contribute to white paper. How to promote, where to promote  

**Ric Wright:** no quick answer. Used to have some promotion options within IDPF. New options like EPUB3, 4- do we make choices on what to promote?  

**Laudain:** any ideas from the group?  
… could it be on the W3C blog?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** timing of promotion vs. development of EPUB 3.2 - what do we talk about?  
… should we do that promotion while educating about EPUB 3.2  

**Ivan Herman:** W3C blog not the ideal channel. Readership is different  
… do not expect that those people are the right targets  
… may want to seek out partner blogs or other syndication channels  
… does not feel the W3C blog alone is enough  

> *Brian O'Leary:* Bill_Kasdorf could add this as an article in Publishers Weekly

**Luc Audrain:** IMO this can be re-phrased differently:  
- from EPUB2 to EPUB3.2 (that's our target right now)
- from resources on the Web to Web Publications (2020)
- from EPUB3.2 to EPUB4 (>2020)

 I don't think such a timeline is sending any mixed message.
Goal is EPUB 3.2 adoption; work toward that have resources on the web to support web publications, then move to EPUB 4  

**Garth Conboy:** seems right to me  

**Jens Klingelhöfer:** outside world has not heard a lot about EPUB lately; good idea to stage communications  

**Luc Audrain:** timing around release of EPUB 3.2  
… use other channels, outside of just w3c  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to "it's about EPUB 3"

**dauhwe:** EPUB 3.2 not solving 'urgent' problems. Keep message around EPUB not EPUB 3.2  

**Garth Conboy:** adding happy pills to what dave said  
… the focus should be on epub 3  
… I do think 3.2 solves urgent problems  
… and our current spec, 3.1, has zero adoption  
… it may not solve tech problems ,but it solves perception/standards problems  

**Luc Audrain:** BillK, you proposed that  a coordination task force would look at geography  
… the road map task force should work on these messages  
… and hopefully epubcheck would be in better shape for 3.2  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I agree with Luc re roadmap TF doing the messaging

**Luc Audrain:** this roadmap should take this into account and propose communication  
… that's why it's in the BG  
… and we could work on preparing the messages  
… we could also prepare a list of newsletters and communication channels we have in publishing around the world  
… what do you think?  

> *Dave Cramer:* +1

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1

> *Ric Wright:* +1

> *Wolfgang Schindler:* +1

**Bill Kasdorf:** that's a good idea  

> *Jens:* +1

**Bill Kasdorf:** in our coordination task force, we've identified lots of organizations  

**Luc Audrain:** I agree for the road map task force to take this action  
… during the time of 3.2 work and epubcheck, during the next month, until the end of the year, I'll work on white paper  
… and a list of news channels  
… with your help, Bill_Kasdorf  
… Ric, could you contribute?  

**Ric Wright:** I'd be happy to  

**Luc Audrain:** the easiest way to contribute is to participate within the road map task force  
… in June, I will prepare a task force call  
… any more comment on that subject of EPUB3 adoption  
… Bill_Kasdorf, do you identify a specific deliverable about geographic adoption?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I need to consult my co-chairs and have a June meeting for that task force, before we can identify deliverables  

**Luc Audrain:** it doesn't have to be in June, but we need to start to gather information  
… liisamk, does this discussion help?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes, thanks!  

**Luc Audrain:** any other business?  
… so let's end the meeting. Thanks!  

---
