---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-12-04
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2018-12-04
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-12-04

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Dec/0001.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/12/04-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Luc Audrain, Wendy Reid, Dave Cramer, Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni), Wolfgang Schindler, Ivan Herman, Tzviya Siegman, Rachel Comerford, Ric Wright, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, George Kerscher, Ralph Swick, Julie Blair, Avneesh Singh, Garth Conboy, Karen Myers, Julian Calderazi, Laurent Le Meur

**Regrets:** Jeff Jaffe, Rick Johnson, Caroline Hayes

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Ric Wright

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUBCheck revision
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** Good news from epubcheck group  
… DAISY was chosen and their goal was to fix the existing problems.  
… The result is EPUBCheck 4.1 which is now available.  
… Many bugs are fixed, but it does NOT contain any support for EPUB 3.2  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/11/epubcheck-intermediate-4-1-release/](https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/11/epubcheck-intermediate-4-1-release/) -> blog on epubcheck

**Luc Audrain:** But we still need to raise more money for supporting the 2 years of development.  
… But we are only halfway there.  
… Note that we still need to carefully check that EPUBCheck is performing correctly  

**Dave Cramer:** Some issues are still being tracked, e.g. CSS etc.  but its validation is in good shape.  

**Luc Audrain:** we are expecting a beta release of EPUBCheck by the end of February 2019  
… This will be a very important message for the publishing sector.  
… Note also that we need to continue the message about the "sunset" of EPUB 2  

### 2. epub 3.2  rec track question
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Work is continuing in the WG about finalizing 3.2  
… There are folks on the WG who are both in favor of 3.2 and those opposed.  
… A document of pros and cons is being prepared.  It may be too early to take a firm decision  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17CyIqihtjjzT7Abbcq9sSqLNqLGKs2cuXdg4DcFulGY/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17CyIqihtjjzT7Abbcq9sSqLNqLGKs2cuXdg4DcFulGY/edit?usp=sharing)

**Dave Cramer:** Some of you may have noted that Makoto-san is concerned that approving 3.2 may result in features being dropped that are actively used in Japan  
… I have been very busy creating tests for EPUB - from OEB 1.2 up to the present day  
… I could use some help with this  

**Luc Audrain:** Is this something the CG could help with?  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1 to Dave's approach

**Dave Cramer:** Yes, we will be discussing this in the Thursday meeting  

**Luc Audrain:** The concern of (some of) the Japanese is that they have added features to their variant of EPUB and that these features may be dropped in 3.2  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I do not understand the concern about the "loss" of features. This seems overblown  
… it will be easier to present and test if the spec is a formal spec  

**Luc Audrain:** Note that publishers don't wait for standards - they use what is being supported.  

**Dave Cramer:** The way to address this gap in understanding is through clearly specifying  and testing the spec  
… The concern of the Japanese is that the WG will drop features that are currently used by the J publishers  
… Including the title of the package...  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* ...that are not supported now

**Avneesh Singh:** Note that testing is good, but requiring all these features and testing will delay the ratification of the spec.  

**Dave Cramer:** It was not my expectation that we would delay the spec.  We are gated at by the completion of the spec and the readiness of RS to consume it  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Rec-track seems less important than getting the buy-in  from the fringe people who are hesitant about adoption EPUB 3.x  

**Garth Conboy:** Not obvious how a RS that supports 3.0.1 WOULDN'T support 3.2  
… So we shouldn't wait for EPUBCheck to support 3.2   Instead, we should support and bless 3.2 ASAP  

**Luc Audrain:** Seems that the key is for the CG to be testing the spec and the WG will continue to work on extending the spec (e.g. WP and audio)  
… But we need to be consistent in our messaging about the status and direction of EPUB 3.2  

### 3. Audio books
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** Is there any news about audio support for eBooks?  From the TF?  

**Laurent Le Meur:** There are some action items from the WG about audio-books, but it does not seem to be a priority for the WG  

**Wendy Reid:** Note that next week's WG meeting will discuss audio-books  
… And the WG is also taking on the packaging and how it relates to audio-books  
… The WG believes it understand the parameters of the audio-book problem, but the TF lacks input from the audio book publishers.  

**Avneesh Singh:** I don't think the spec is a major issue though there are some issues related to packaging  
… Our top priority should be getting feedback from the publishers  

**George Kerscher:** The audio publisher industry is not that technical.  So getting direct input and support may be difficult  
… So perhaps we need to engage those groups in a different fashion that is not WG-traditional  

**Laurent Le Meur:** I will be talking tomorrow to a group about audio-book support in Europe  
… I intend to report back to this group about their concerns etc.  

**George Kerscher:** Note that we are not asking them to change their base production approach, but more about the metadata  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Is there a list of publishers etc. that we are contacting/working with?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Agree that the audio-publishers are not particularly technical.  They would be happy to provide "requirements" but are not about implementation  
… So are approach would need to be different  

**Luc Audrain:** Note that there are a lot of audio-book usage in northern Europe.  We should make sure to reach out to them  

**Dave Cramer:** Less concerned with discussing the technical aspects with publishers as ensuring that we are meeting their actual needs.  

**Garth Conboy:** Don't disagree with dauwhe but we need to also need to rope in both the vendors (Google PLay, etc.) but also the producers  

**Laurent Le Meur:** We also need to convince the producers that metadata etc. is valuable in both their workflow and to their end-users.  

**Luc Audrain:** Agreed.  Note that we are supporting ONIX, which is very valuable in this regard.  

### 4. Visual Narratives
{: #section4}

**Laurent Le Meur:** Yesterday we spoke at "Les Assises du Livre Numérique" about EPUB as well as audiobooks and there was some significant interest  
… I believe we need encourage the CG to develop the use-cases and requirements  
… Then it will be reasonable to involve the WG more deeply  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://www.w3.org/community/bdcomacg/](https://www.w3.org/community/bdcomacg/) -> BD/Comics/Manga CG

**Tzviya Siegman:** It is important to note that are getting more interest from Japanese publishers so we need to ensure that we loop them in  

**Laurent Le Meur:** Agreed.  Yesterday I did speak to some of the publishers from Japan about this, particularly manga  
… But we also need to loop in American publishers re comics  

**Luc Audrain:** We recently had a workshop in Japan about visual narratives and this is likely to produce some useful outcomes  

**Karen Myers:** I have looked in to some comics production in the US, but if you have additional leads that would be useful  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Comixology is owned by Amazon but it is something of a black box from the publishers perspective  

### 5. TPI Members, Meeting with the W3C AB in NYC
{: #section5}

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_Ri-6KT5Kfg5HPYzKTKvlWUswi4dgz3UGd7jrpivxXE/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_Ri-6KT5Kfg5HPYzKTKvlWUswi4dgz3UGd7jrpivxXE/edit?usp=sharing)

**Tzviya Siegman:** There will be a meeting of the advisory board of the W3C soon.  One of the evening meetings will be focused on topics relevant to this group, esp. w/r to TPI Membership.  

**George Kerscher:** Note that one of the options for TPI members is to join the business group member  

**Karen Myers:** Note that we have completed a new campaign to encourage those TPI members  

**Luc Audrain:** We need to recognize that our meeting-support for Asian members is not good (due to the time-differences among other issues)  

---
