---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-03-27
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2018-03-27
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-03-27

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Mar/0042.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/27-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Avneesh Singh, Mateus Teixeira, Rachel Comerford, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Karen Myers, Dave Cramer, Brian O'Leary, Dan Sanicola, Tzviya Siegman, George Kerscher, Bill Kasdorf, Luc Audrain, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Bill McCoy

**Regrets:** Cristina Mussinelli, Laurent Le Meurs, Ric Wright, Junko Kamata, Wolfgang Schindler

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Rachel Comerford

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. epub 3.2
{: #section1}

### 2. EPUB 3.2 update
{: #section2}

**Dave Cramer:** matt garish has been hard at work on 3.2 and multiple issues have been opened in github  
… we plan to have a community group call a week from thursday  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://github.com/w3c/publ-epub-revision/issues](https://github.com/w3c/publ-epub-revision/issues)

**Dave Cramer:** in the meantime, file and comment on issues!  

**Karen Myers:** would it be appropriate to do a followup blog post to encourage ebookcrafters to take a look?  

**Dave Cramer:** I already promised to write one  

### 3. PR strategy for 3.2
{: #section3}

**Dave Cramer:** we're going to write a blog post about what 3.2 is, why we're doing it, and who it impacts  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we can send a link to the business group but there are other ways to get it out there  

**Luc Audrain:** do we still need to explain why we are doing it? Now is the time to do it.  

**Dave Cramer:** we're talking about sharing those reasons with a larger group of people (not revisiting if we should)  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I was going to suggest (not sure of cross posting policies at w3c) that we cross post with blogs like epubsecrets  

**Ivan Herman:** we have no problem doing that  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 EPUB Secrets

**Tzviya Siegman:** dauwhe and I can follow up with Laura Brady  

**Bill McCoy:** I think for the broader audience we could push to publishers weekly, etc. since this is the CG delivering on the first update to epub in a while  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** this leads us into promoting epub3 in general  
… we need to be clear that you shouldn't wait for 3.2 if you're not making epub3 now  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to not waiting for 3.2

**Dave Cramer:** the idea is if you're making 3.0.1, you're making 3.2  

> *Bill McCoy:* ... or even worse people may think "Web Publications is on the way so we won't do EPUB 3 at all"

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I'm more concerned about people still using epub2 that might wait to switch  

**George Kerscher:** there is a BISG group working on promoting epub3  

> *Bill McCoy:* we need to promote the message that EPUB 3 is alive and well and thriving under W3C custodianship

**Brian O'Leary:** what George said  
… our efforts are largely focused on north america  

> *Karen Myers:* +1 use external coordination group to help with outreach communications

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** BillK can we use the external coordination effort to push this forward as well  

**Dave Cramer:** we should keep the focus on epub3 and not consider the impact of the numbers after the decimal  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to Dave

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 to epub3 (rather than epub3.145...)

**Karen Myers:** livre book canada offered to assist in outreach to more canadian pubs  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I also got a good response from booknet canada in that regard  

> *Karen Myers:* [https://livrescanadabooks.com/en/canadian-publishers/publishers-associations-and-related-organizations/](https://livrescanadabooks.com/en/canadian-publishers/publishers-associations-and-related-organizations/)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** sounds as though we are in agreement that this is the right direction  
… a second step would be short and sweet talking points to share  

**Brian O'Leary:** it is important to have booknet canada because they are working more within canada while livre focuses on international sale of canadian books  
… the push is similar to our push with Onix3 in the BISG  

**Bill Kasdorf:** joshua tallent is leading the charge and we're getting a good response from trading partners  

### 4. epubcheck
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's talk about crowdsourcing funding  
… it might be a good idea to put out an RFP for doing the work on epubcheck  
… how it would be build, cost, etc  
… this gives us greater transparency  
… in the meantime while we put out the RFP, we can also put out a request for issues especially from bigger partners that use it  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 to bidding out

**Bill McCoy:** we might want to word the RFP to suggest that we can provide promotional credit on the tool to keep costs down on development  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we did also discuss that that could be an offer in crowdsourcing the funding  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I love the idea of the RFP. I received an email from one of the devs at Kobo offering to help. I have a lot of trouble asking a developer for a cut rate - I would like to offer them the money their time is worth  

**Bill McCoy:** I was thinking more about asking companies to offer us a discount while the dev gets paid market rate  

**Bill Kasdorf:** is this meant to be ongoing, or just fix and done  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I think we need to hammer out the details of the fundraising  
… we're lose on the structure... last week we told conference members if you do want to contribute, tell Bill  

### 5. external coordination
{: #section5}

**Bill Kasdorf:** we have gotten several good responses but we would like more people to sign on in terms of external coordination with other organizations  
… the list is quickly getting pretty large  
… we need either a blanket communication to various organizations or if we want 'real' engagement which involves someone saying I will manage xyz coordination  
… if we do the latter, we need more people on the task force  
… it would be ideal if each member coordinated with one org  
… but that may not be practical  
… what I'd like is more input and participation  
… but membership remains an issue  
… this isn't simply publicizing what we're doing but also making sure we're not creating problems for anyone else  
… ie Japan's issue with the versioning  

**Brian O'Leary:** i'm empathetic with the overview from Bill_Kasdorf - one thing I would suggest for the task force is to operationalize it with input on a timed basis  
… the time can be difficult to manager  

**Avneesh Singh:** this is largely outreach and marketing. putting this in the BG provides restrictions to the number of people that can get involved  
… should we have a CG focused on this?  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm not sure our business people will be happy with that  
… on a larger scale it is fairly easy to do  

**George Kerscher:** one of the focus of the communication is adoption without fragmentation (like having companies do their own accessibility guidelines) - having everyone work together will be important  

**Bill Kasdorf:** on the subject ivan raise, when the task force chairs gathered we decided to focus on communication not recruitment to avoid undermining BillM efforts for recruitment  

**Ivan Herman:** are you in favor or not of a CG?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I need time to consider  

**Bill McCoy:** whether we need a new community group or putting this work under the existing CG aside, the question about recruiting new members is geared more toward working on CSS, web fonts etc - areas outside of the publishing groups  

**Bill Kasdorf:** another thing to keep in mind for the task force is not companies that might join the task force, we're talking about organization that have members  

### 6. epub requirements
{: #section6}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I apologize that the grid in drive had limited permissions  

> *Rachel Comerford:* [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hsd6-d2gac5QFHw7lM927hjRV1CEh_80qcaTO3ddBbE/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hsd6-d2gac5QFHw7lM927hjRV1CEh_80qcaTO3ddBbE/edit#gid=0)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Please encourage people who have suggestions to contribute  

### 7. next meetings
{: #section7}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we are sending out revised calendar invites to meet the international scheduling needs  

**Ivan Herman:** we need to make sure go to meeting is available  

> *Ivan Herman:* proposal is to have a meeting at 7pm ET for the second meetings of the month

> *Rachel Comerford:* next call is April 10th

**12:** 00 eastern  

> *Rachel Comerford:* pm

---
