---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-04-24
title:  — 2018-04-24
---

#  — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-04-24

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/04/24-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** George Kerscher, Murata Makoto, Tzviya Siegman, Avneesh Singh, Rachel Comerford, Bill Kasdorf, Wolfgang Schindler, Bill McCoy, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Karen Myers, Brian O'Leary, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Garth Conboy, Dan Sanicola, Ric Wright, Dave Cramer, Paul Belfanti, Laurent Le Meurs, Julian Calderazi

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Rachel Comerford

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Dave Cramer:* Title: Publishing Business Group Telco

> *Murata Makoto:* present*

### 1. epubcheck
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** we are talking about fixing and updating epubcheck and are talking about the process of finding developers  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Rachel Liisa and I are working on an RFP; Rachel and I are meeting tomorrow to discuss  

**Laurent Le Meurs:** when the RFP is done, EDRLab can look at it and possibly apply  
… we could find a developer and project manager in Europe  

> *Murata Makoto:* Great! > Laurent

**Laurent Le Meurs:** I think it would be interesting because it would be kept in the epub circle and it's a complement to the readium work we're doing now  

**Bill Kasdorf:** we also need to decide what we're doing on the fundraising side  
… we should provide a scale based on company size  

### 2. Use Cases and Business Cases
{: #section2}

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/0012.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publ-wg/2018Apr/0012.html)

**Tzviya Siegman:** in the working group we talked about making sure the BG is more in line with what the WG is doing  
… more frequent communication will ensure that the use cases and business cases are well aligned  
… 3.2 led to a lot of interest that we hadn't previously seen  
… one area that we're working on is improved references to the use cases  
… we haven't done much work with the use cases since switching from the IG  
… how can we ensure interest in the WG and communication to the BG  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* use cases [https://w3c.github.io/dpub-pwp-ucr/](https://w3c.github.io/dpub-pwp-ucr/)

**Avneesh Singh:** one major issue we'll hit is the the epub32 release  
… and then WP/PWP  

> *Murata Makoto:* There will be much delay.

**Avneesh Singh:** how will we explain the rapid release or specs  
… should we delay WP/PWP to prevent overwhelming the audience. We also do not want to risk losing the interest of the web community.  

**Dave Cramer:** epub32 should not change how people build ebooks... our messaging should be about epub3 and not epub3.2  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* avneesh: We need to make sure that we keep the business case for WP/PWP documented

**Bill McCoy:** dauwhe just said much of what I wanted to say  
… it's important to note that 3.2 shows that W3C is continuing the custodianship of epub3  

> *Murata Makoto:* +1

**Bill McCoy:** it shows we're continuing to get things done post IDPF work  
… I think it was a conversation here last time; I think we should consider putting 3.2 on the formal recommendation track  
… that will help membership and participation in the W3C - to see the work continue on both fronts  

**Luc Audrain:** it's not just epub 3.2 that's important, it's epubcheck  
… we need to produce the latest version of epubcheck in line with the epub3 specs  
… I also think that the rest of the pwg work - the wp/pwp work - will be of great interest to the community and will be available before epub4  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I want to stress that one of the concerns with moving forward with WP is that we're supposed to be in synch with the BG, but the BG seems largely focused on the trade industry  
… we need business cases documented for different use cases  
… including scholarly, etc  
… please tell me if you have unique use cases  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I share avneesh's concern about confusion between epub3.2 and epub4  
… our priority should be wrapping up 3.2 quickly  
… so I don't think we should go down the rec track  
… once we have WP it should be embraced by communities that did not embrace epub  
… while trade publishing stays with 3.2  

> *Luc Audrain:* me too

**Laurent Le Meurs:** there is a need from this business group to consider the updates that EPUB4 could allow - 1) compatibility with WP 2) additional features - inclusion of audio books and the inclusion of enriched visual narratives  

**Luc Audrain:** I think that what we discussed in terms of continuous channel from the WG to the BG, we should bring explicit business cases for each business vertical and each type - WP, PWP, EPUB4  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* the key difference will be HTML not XML

> *Garth Conboy:* +1 to Luc

> *Avneesh Singh:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** who will be working on these business cases  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I can work on scholarly  

**Rachel Comerford:** I can work on education  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what if we created a task force?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** would it violate rules to put a task force across BG and WG?  

**Bill McCoy:** ideally the task force members are held to the patent policy  
… we the BG can invite people more easily  

> *Julian Calderazi:* Hi all. can't log in for some reason. But I'm here.

**Bill McCoy:** to comment on scholarly thing - I'll be at the atypon user group meeting in June  
… I will expressing some vision, but likely a personal vision of scholarly unless this task force moves ahead quickly  

**Luc Audrain:** have we answered tzviya's question about volunteers?  

> *Bill McCoy:* thanks Tzivya!

**Tzviya Siegman:** I had been planning to meet with people from the WG. I volunteer to lead the task force from the business group and invite WG members as needed  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I would recommend that you write up what the task force is doing and send it to the business group as an invitation to participate  

### 3. epub3.2
{: #section3}

**Dave Cramer:** we are having weekly calls, closed an issue or two  

**Garth Conboy:** I'm guessing 3.2 will be closer to mid this year  

> *Murata Makoto:* I would like to have some official review period.

> *Garth Conboy:* Yea, done enough for real review.

**Murata Makoto:** after the completion of the first draft I plan to ask multiple publishers to carefully review - please have 1-2 month for this review period  

**Tzviya Siegman:** how do we advance this note to CR or PR?  
… do we want to try to outline these for 3.2?  

**Dave Cramer:** I think we sort of make it up  
… starting with a draft report, and then a review period  
… and then the BG may meet to approve in an informal way  

**Bill Kasdorf:** what about the rec track?  

**Bill Kasdorf:** we should have formal stages like the rec track  

**Dave Cramer:** we have 0 new features  

**Bill Kasdorf:** it shouldn't be a challenge since it's a mild change  

**Dave Cramer:** no new features, but also no test suite  
… so there is problem checking implementations  

**Luc Audrain:** if we can validate to epub3.2 in epubcheck then we have implementation covered. This is why the epubcheck update is so important for validation  

**Murata Makoto:** I would like to make a lot of noise to support completing the creation of 3.2  
… can we announce the completion at an event?  

**Laurent Le Meurs:** march/may 2019 for the digital publishing summit  

**Bill Kasdorf:** in encouraging support of 3.2, we should get reading systems to say that they accept 3.2  

**Dave Cramer:** I think that's confusing the issue - we don't want to change the details  

**Luc Audrain:** we should share a list of events (a google doc?) of events were 3.2 should/could be announced?  

> *Brian O'Leary:* I need to excuse myself from this call to moderate a BISG webinar at 1 p.m. ET. My apologies.

**Murata Makoto:** I will start the document  

> *Garth Conboy:* I’m planning on an update in Berlin next month.

**George Kerscher:** I'll be promoting 3.2 (as well as epub3 in general) at accessibility events  
… I'm promoting the heck out of it for education  

> *Murata Makoto:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rpjFsVplR3f_ppNnCsJfWiPGq9atQ8sSONqGNUJzDWE/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rpjFsVplR3f_ppNnCsJfWiPGq9atQ8sSONqGNUJzDWE/edit?usp=sharing)

> *Bill Kasdorf:* thank you Avneesh

**Avneesh Singh:** a little bit of confusion in communication - dauwhe suggested promoting epub3 and others are talking about announcements for 3.2  

**Dave Cramer:** I'm not sure what to say at this point - every 3.0.1 file in the world will be compatible with 3.2  
… as people who work on the specs I think we are more deeply invested  
… I don't know how we focus the encouragement to move to epub3 from epub2 but also announce these smaller changes in 3.2  

> *Bill McCoy:* it's the same old thing but now it's "W3C EPUB 3" not "IDPF EPUB 3"

**Bill Kasdorf:** that's the most important messaging when epub3.2 comes out - don't misconstrue the new decimal point, it's what you're used to  

### 4. FXL workshop - manga and comics
{: #section4}

**Bill McCoy:** we are working out the details - it will be sept 10th in Japan  
… we are soliciting participants  
… it will be a technical workshop but the program committee doesn't need to be technical experts  
… as long as they understand the market and it's needs  
… please email Ivan and myself to participate in the program committtee  
… W3C members are preferred but not required  

**Murata Makoto:** I volunteer  

> *Murata Makoto:* I volunteer to be a co-chair

### 5. Accessing Higher Ground (AHG)
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** there is an accessible epub track at the conference  
… November in Colorado  

### 6. ISO
{: #section6}

**Luc Audrain:** we had a discussion in the ISO task force and I believe we have a consensus  

**Murata Makoto:** publish epub 3.0.1 as a fast track international standard and also publish accessibility as a regular standard  

> *George Kerscher:* Here is the link to the conference’s speaker registration form. General links that explains the conference is on the site.

> *George Kerscher:* [http://accessinghigherground.org/speaker-submissions/](http://accessinghigherground.org/speaker-submissions/)

> *George Kerscher:* Here is the link to the conference’s speaker registration form. General links that explains the conference is on the site.http://accessinghigherground.org/speaker-submissions/q+

**Murata Makoto:** it is better if the proposal comes from the chair of this business group  

**Luc Audrain:** so it will come from me  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** no objections!  

**George Kerscher:** do we need to verify with W3C management?  

**Bill McCoy:** there have been a few alternatives considered. if the business group considers this to be the right plan then we'll need the proposal from Makoto to validate this plan with the W3C management  

**Luc Audrain:** We have consensus  

**Bill McCoy:** once it's written up I can bring it to W3C management  

**Murata Makoto:** none of the options are closed yet, but we would like to pursue option 4  

> *Dave Cramer:* rrsagent: draft minutes

> *Dave Cramer:* rrsagent: make logs public

---
