---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-06-19
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2018-06-19
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-06-19

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Jun/0012.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/06/19-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rick Johnson, Avneesh Singh, Ric Wright, Ivan Herman, Murata Makoto, George Kerscher, Dan Sanicola, Bill McCoy, Garth Conboy, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Julie Blair, Paul Belfanti

**Regrets:** Luc Audrain, Bill Kasdorf, Dave Cramer, Tzviya Siegman, Rachel Comerford, Wolfgang Schindler

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rick Johnson

**Scribe(s):** George Kerscher

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. update on epubcheck and fund raising
{: #section1}

**Rick Johnson:** RFP for epubcheck is available  
… Two requests 1. broadcast the link and get it out there.  
… and there will be a fund raising effort coming soon.  
… If you work for a company who would contribute, we want to already have commitments before we go public.  

> *Ric Wright:* I have not seen the RFP - can someone post the link?

> *Rick Johnson:* EPUBCheck RFP link:  [https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/Epubcheck-Development-Update-and-Maintenance-Request-for-Proposal](https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck/wiki/Epubcheck-Development-Update-and-Maintenance-Request-for-Proposal)

### 2. Tokyo workshop update
{: #section2}

> *Bill McCoy:* [https://www.w3.org/publishing/events/tokyo18-workshop/cfp.html](https://www.w3.org/publishing/events/tokyo18-workshop/cfp.html)

**Bill McCoy:** call for participation link will be posted, but we need to wait for W3CM to approve. It will go out next week after that.  
… We are looking for people to participate in the Program committee. CSS, and digital magazines would be great to have on the committee.  
… We do have a core team already, but we welcome more joining.  
… We will use github for program development.  

> *Bill McCoy:* [https://github.com/w3c/tokyo18-workshop/](https://github.com/w3c/tokyo18-workshop/)

> *Murata Makoto:* Dr. Takami from KADOKAWA

**Bill McCoy:** We have a cap of 90 for the workshop. We do want global representation.  

> *Murata Makoto:* Will have CSS people!

> *Murata Makoto:* Thanks to Florian.

**Bill McCoy:** There will also be associated events.  
… A half day in Japanese and another 1.5 day event  

**Bill McCoy:** 1.5 day workshop and half day in Japanese.  
… Also a working meeting on topography, but that is private.  
… Dates September 18 and 19, 2018  
… Keio University is hosting.  

**Murata Makoto:** I would like to meet with Manga and French Comic people. We are looking for people to participate even if they are not as technically on top of things.  

**Bill McCoy:** The more that we can do that is not private the better. People should not feel excluded in some of these meetings that are evolving.  

### 3. epub road map task force
{: #section3}

> *Rick Johnson:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Jun/0008.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishingbg/2018Jun/0008.html)

**Rick Johnson:** We want to coordinate with the EPUB 3.2 release and the upcoming release of epubcheck.  
… We want to encourage greater adoption in EPUB 3 and discourage EPUB 3.  
… So look at the email about the meeting dates and times and get involved.  

---
