---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-03-13
title: Publishing Business Group Telco — 2018-03-13
---

# Publishing Business Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2018-03-13

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2018Mar/0010.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/13-pbg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Bill McCoy, Murata Makoto, Avneesh Singh, Luc Audrain, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Tzviya Siegman, Bill Kasdorf, Dave Cramer, Junko Kamata, Brian O'Leary, Wolfgang Schindler, Ivan Herman, Jun-ichi Yoshii, Garth Conboy, Ric Wright, George Kerscher, Julian Calderazi, Dan Fauxsmith, Laurent Le Meurs

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:**

**Chair:** Luc Audrain

**Scribe(s):** Garth Conboy, Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. EPUB 3.2 proposal
{: #section1}

**Luc Audrain:** first item for EPUB 3.2 resolution  
… Version 3.2; lots of work to do.  
… Agree with principles?  Or have comments?  

> *Julian Calderazi:* link: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2RbLipc5VY3vUp_iuPak3oaNxI5BF9gJ5s-98qsmEY/edit?ts=5a578c4c#heading=h.izdc9lnn3tf](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r2RbLipc5VY3vUp_iuPak3oaNxI5BF9gJ5s-98qsmEY/edit?ts=5a578c4c#heading=h.izdc9lnn3tf)

> *Dave Cramer:* [http://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-spec.html](http://w3c.github.io/publ-epub-revision/epub32/spec/epub-spec.html)

**Luc Audrain:** otherwise we’ll move to ask CG to proceed with work on EPUB 3.2 (with all due haste).  
… Good consensus so far  
… No Objections, it seems!  
… Consensus on call; 72 hour notice to go out.  

> ***Resolution #1: CG can go ahead, provided there is no objection within 72 hours***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Murata Makoto:* Who is going to lead the taskforce for this work in the CG?

**Garth Conboy:** can we get Matt to help with draft?  
… how Matt is allocated?  

**George Kerscher:** Matt is 100% with Daisy.  

**Garth Conboy:** Garth will reach out to Matt, for time availability.  

**George Kerscher:** Matt would likely want to work on this but A11Y?  

**Dave:** did first pass as draft, that’s what we’ll work from.  Need issues to move forward.  
… most development should move through gitbub  
… Maybe kick-off meeting makes sense.  

**George Kerscher:** ISO terminology is special, ie, we MUST say SHOULD :-)  

> *Murata Makoto:* Yes, I will!

**George Kerscher:** (beware of W3C/ISO vocab differences)  

### 2. new person on the call
{: #section2}

**Luc Audrain:** Welcome Dan Fauxsmith?  

> *Julian Calderazi:* Welcome Dan! Good to have you here.

### 3. DPUB Summit
{: #section3}

**Luc Audrain:** Can anybody explain where we are with DPUB Summit  

**Laurent Le Meurs:** in Berlin the 17th of May  
… Book your rooms!  

> *Bill McCoy:* [https://www.edrlab.org/dpub-summit-2018/](https://www.edrlab.org/dpub-summit-2018/)

**Laurent Le Meurs:** 1:00p on 16th to 5:30p on the 17th  
… Program on web site  

> *Murata Makoto:* I will be there.

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 Makoto!

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Laurent Le Meurs:** Daisy devices moving to EPUB 3 to be demoed.  

**Bill McCoy:** W3C is co-sponsoring event  

> *Brian O'Leary:* Conflicts with a BISG metadata summit in NY; unable to attend

**Bill McCoy:** Good general agenda and W3C-ish Publishing topics too  
… Mix of (light) technical topics and business too  

> *Murata Makoto:* I wanted to point out that there will be WHATWG people in the AC meeting.  It would be a good chance for us to understand how we should contact WHATWG about HTML.

> *Ivan Herman:* See also [https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/03/digital-publishing-summit-in-berlin-16th-and-17th-of-may/](https://www.w3.org/blog/2018/03/digital-publishing-summit-in-berlin-16th-and-17th-of-may/)

> *Garth Conboy:* Summit follows AC meeting Monday/Tuesday; Readium meeting 16th AM

### 4. epubcheck funding
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** epubcheck funding  
… Need to raise $90-$100K to get epubcheck to where it needs to be  
… Maybe get 20-30 compares to put in $3K+  
… do we need tiers of funding  

**Garth Conboy:** no, for an amount that small.  

> *Ric Wright:* Ric agrees with Garth

**Luc Audrain:** How will this be announced?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** RickJ could work with a list of prospects.  
… Should it just be a letter from this group?  

> *Julian Calderazi:* Whatever might be needed as regards to design, count with me.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** How did we land on getting payment and storing payment  

**Brian O'Leary:** Tiers might be good… for a lead tier (maybe $25K)  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Brian

**Tzviya Siegman:** brian makes a good point  
… where do the checks go?  

**Garth Conboy:** +1 to Brian’s single bigger tier  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** need to settle how we’re going to deal with cash  
… Nominate BillM for handling that  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Bill McCoy:** will take that on and explore option  

**Tzviya Siegman:** if Readium, need to make sure it looks good, relative to W3C taking over for IDPF  

**Laurent Le Meurs:** is there a history of W3C do this sort of stuff: fundraising and paying for development?  

**Ivan Herman:** not really  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://www.w3.org/International/sponsorship/](https://www.w3.org/International/sponsorship/)

**Ivan Herman:** general pushback against potential competition with member orgs  
… some fundraising for general programs (e.g., mobile web initiative)  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* who funds [https://validator.w3.org/?](https://validator.w3.org/?)

**Luc Audrain:** Readium and EDRlab may make sense.  

**Laurent Le Meurs:** yes, well could be  

**Luc Audrain:** though announcements need to be clear  

**Julian Calderazi:** how long do we fundraise?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** until to get to $100K (semi smiley)  

**Tzviya Siegman:** initial release in a month-ish, then start on EPUB 3.2  
… then there is also general maintenance  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** which is why were looking to have an annual budget  

**Ric Wright:** Folks may be taking HappyPills(tm) with said estimates  
… it’s involved, and must be scoped and algile-ish  

**Luc Audrain:** EPUB 3.2 is making it somewhat easier, due to compatibility with EPUB 3.0.1  

**Ric Wright:** suffers for historically from too many cooks in the kitchen  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Six months was allotted for general cleanup of code and test suite  

**Ric Wright:** happy to help refine  

### 5. IDPF Web site's fate
{: #section5}

**Luc Audrain:** IDPF web site  
… discussion about what to move where; A11Y resources move to Daisy?  

**George Kerscher:** problem with maintaining info in two different places; A11Y guidelines on IDPF site; ACE knowledge base  
… should redirect to new ACE location  
… new ACE knowledge is newer and should no be with overlapping copyright (switch older IDPF stuff)  

**Ivan Herman:** beyond A11Y…  
… what do we do with the IDPF Web site?  
… some pages should be deprecated there  
… Keep some IDPF pages alive for W3C publishing?  

> *Murata Makoto:* Yes

> *Murata Makoto:* I would like to point out that

> *Murata Makoto:* EPUB 3.1 depends on some

> *Murata Makoto:* registries at the IDPF site.

> *Murata Makoto:* URLs are hardcoded in the specs.

> *Garth Conboy:* ask rkwright

**Ric Wright:** have been working on some Readium site work, with some light cloning from IDPF  

> *Dave Cramer:* we've ported some IDPF documents to the CG github: [https://w3c.github.io/publ-cg/](https://w3c.github.io/publ-cg/)

**Bill Kasdorf:** Some auxiliary specs (e.g., indexes) could well move to be CG notes  
… if still valid  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Should 3.2 not point to anything on IDPF site?  

> *Murata Makoto:* That's certainly possible.

**Garth Conboy:** likely good direction for 3.2  

**Ivan Herman:** but old URLs never die  

> *Laurent Le Meurs:* who's paying today for the IDPF domain name?

**Bill McCoy:** 3.2 referencing only W3C locations is a good plan  
… IDPF.org should be considered more a static archive  
… could move into some sort of static archive  

> *Murata Makoto:* We had [http://idpf.org/epub/vocab/structure/](http://idpf.org/epub/vocab/structure/) (ssv)

> *Murata Makoto:* But it is redirected to [https://idpf.github.io/epub-vocabs/structure/](https://idpf.github.io/epub-vocabs/structure/)

> *Murata Makoto:* We cannot change them.

**Ivan Herman:** Package namespace is IDPF URI  

**Bill McCoy:** epubzone isn’t continuing, W3C will be used instead.  
… it was never normative, anyhow.  

> *Murata Makoto:* Redirection would work.

**Ric Wright:** 1) URLs: redirection can help not break specs.  2) epubzone, some has migrated to Readium  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Noticed that forums on epubzone are still active and might be in need of monitoring  

**Ivan Herman:** Should use W3C blog for publishing stuff  

### 6. Task forces
{: #section6}

#### 6.1. External coordination TF
{: #section6-1}

**Bill Kasdorf:** email to Publishing BG late this week or early next (External Coordination task force) to call for participation  
… stay tuned for email  

#### 6.2. A11y TF
{: #section6-2}

**Luc Audrain:** A11Y TF call tomorrow  

> *Murata Makoto:* A11Y: BillM, did you speak with the W3C management about starting an EPUB accessibility project in ISO/IEC?  Japan has created a draft for the required new work item proposal and is waiting.

**Avneesh Singh:** A11Y awaiting resolution/direction  

> *Murata Makoto:* I think that I need "OK".

> *Murata Makoto:* That's all.

> *Murata Makoto:* Why no progress?

**Luc Audrain:** ISO — 3.0.1 now, start on 3.2 thereafter  

> *Murata Makoto:* Why no "OK" from the w3c m about an Iso/IEC project for EPUB A11Y?

> *Murata Makoto:* No.

> *Murata Makoto:* Independent.

**Bill McCoy:** 3.2 needs to be set.  This should should recommend that “OK”.  
… does it make sense to EPUB A11Y at ISO independently of EPUB 3.2  

> *Murata Makoto:* I agree with Garth.

> *Murata Makoto:* should be separated.

**Avneesh Singh:** the proposal of separating epub a11y from EPUB 3.1 was due to the independence of accessibility  
… now the situation has changed, and we need to rethink  

> *Bill McCoy:* +1 to Avneesh

> *Murata Makoto:* Yes!

> *Murata Makoto:* Bye

**Luc Audrain:** we need a call about ISO and a11y  
… thanks all  

---


### 7. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): CG can go ahead, provided there is no objection within 72 hours
