---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-01-24
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2020-01-24
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-01-24",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-01-24",
            "endDate": "2020-01-24",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "George Kerscher"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Cramer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ralph Swick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-01-24

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/01/24-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Tzviya Siegman, Dave Cramer, George Kerscher, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Avneesh Singh, Jeff Jaffe, Wendy Reid, Bill Kasdorf, Ralph Swick, Ivan Herman, Garth Conboy, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)

**Regrets:** Luc Audrain

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** George Kerscher

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Survey
{: #section1}

> *Ralph Swick:* See [EPUB Survey Draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZLAIgAH7hoWo56uov3QN2-jaMY6MaWQKJrAys1GwDdY/edit)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Survey up for discussion.  
… What is the most accessible tool and how do we want to deploy?  

**Avneesh Singh:** We in DAISY are using Survey monkey. If you keep it simple, it works fine.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** is Survey Monkey free? what about Google forms?  

**Avneesh Singh:** I think i was successful once, and I am able to test it.  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Survey Monkey web site says there is a free option.  

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://www.surveymonkey.com/pricing/individual/details/](https://www.surveymonkey.com/pricing/individual/details/)

**Ivan Herman:** Problem with Google anything is it may be blocked in China.  

**Wendy Reid:** Survey Monkey's free version is too limiting?  

**Garth Conboy:** Can we hit up DAISY?  

**George Kerscher:** DAISY could do it, but it is a question of Dave's time.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** If PRH can do it, it would not be a done on Dave Gunn from DAISY's time.  

**Garth Conboy:** action item for Liisa with George as a fallback.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** WBS is available.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Survey Monkey is more user friendly.  

**Ralph Swick:** I will ask our com team if W3C might have a survey monkey account or if we want one. I will report back.  

### 2. F2F preparation
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** F2F and what we need to do in prep.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* See [Goals and motivations for EPUB and Publishing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zLKHs6RlXOg371ZAlxSbHirwyLlLjXhMcAOKRXRR8SU/edit?usp=sharing)

> *Tzviya Siegman:* See [F2F Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12mOkAVcopnEA_-H1t_TQ0ocUKzgqeA1u-zcArPdsTss/edit?usp=sharing)

**Tzviya Siegman:** The Goals document has at the bottom there is a motivation and key drivers. Please fill in this section.  
… include your name so we can talk about this intelligently. Meeting is one month from today.  

> *George Kerscher:* .. suggestion to add a shorthand note to the document.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Chairs discuss want is working and what is not. Can your groups have that discussion in the next two weeks?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I have been thinking about it, but we should think about it before we discuss.  
… Item just added. Is that a driver for EPUB or the publishing community.  

**Ivan Herman:** There is a technical aspect and a community aspect.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I explained that one item with linking aligns with the web and expanding the community. It brings in parts of publishing that is not part of EPUB.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Clarification please.  
… Did you want us to start putting down our ideas for each group?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** For now get your ideas down and we do not that much detail. We don't need to figure out what group it belongs to now.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Is business a separate driver?  

> *George Kerscher:* .. What I put in was what would drive sales, and it is also a good reader experience and expanding the business.

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Expand of the whole, which could be a key driver.  
… Discuss with WG and CG such many different areas entertainment etc. that are interested in what publishing community.  
… The IG could be could be very interesting to publishing. There are over all we should expand the community to many different areas.  

**Avneesh Singh:** Drivers broad or specific. We need to find a balance  
… Of course we want to expand the business, but how what means can we do that. We need specific examples of what that direction is taken.  
… We have the same need when talking about integration with the web, but what exactly do we mean by this.  
… We can refine the document as we move forward.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** The key drivers feels like our drivers and not necessarily the community we serve.  
… We want something a better reading experience that would help the community. It does not help membership.  

**Avneesh Singh:** The community question is a good one. The survey will help us get their perspective. It is true that it is our perspective. It will be improved by the survey.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** This is our drivers, but it is our knowledge of the industry. The survey will improve the document.  
… I don't care who will be working on these things right now; this can wait.  
… For example Liisa has great know of trade.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** should we pull out or move what Jeff has been working on.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I have been adding things. The suggestion is to shift Jeff's part to the bottom.  
… Anything else?  

### 3. Update on EPUB 3 Charter
{: #section3}

> *Garth Conboy:* See [Draft charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CTwQIhmsyXh0tpS6RLmLLeGDkO5JKHV1FdaXoh3CdXI/edit#)

**Dave Cramer:** We have been working on it and there are a lot of comments in the draft charter. We have had robust discussion around goals and the future of EPUB.  
… a lot of rewording to do based on the comments.  
… The survey will be very important, and the REC track question is important.  

**Ivan Herman:** We should EPUB 3 group and leave out community group and it may or may not lead to a working group.  

**Dave Cramer:** It is currently being worked in the CG, and it could go either way to a CG or a WG.  
… Other questions on this?  

**Ivan Herman:** What is the view of the evolution of EPUB in terms of updates?  
… I have in the back of my mind how the HTML development is going.  

**Avneesh Singh:** This is a tough questions because of the dependencies, EPUBCheck and Reading system. It is difficult because we have the whole ecosystem to move.  

**Dave Cramer:** I agree with Avneesh, that we have a mature spec where backward compatability is important. We don't know what concensis there would be in from the community.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** f Many of the people in our community is framiliar with W3C process.  

> *Garth Conboy:* “EPUB 3.next will be strongly backward-compatible with EPUB 3.2. ”

**Garth Conboy:** I think an effort is going on to figure out the future of EPUB.  
… Strongly backward compatible is an important aspect. There is a lot of opportunity to drive EPUB forward.  

> *Garth Conboy:* ak liisamk

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** It will be hard to get some of these things from a survey. People are looking at updating back lists. People wil need to realize to understand that need to touch their backlist title.  

**Ivan Herman:** We need to understand what the community wants and expects. We have to have a clear view view and understand what the community wants. We don't another 3.1 situation.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to dauwhe

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**dave:** Web developers think of developing HTML and not a specific version. Maintaining compatability of EPUBWe need to bring the spec up without breaking anything.  

**Ivan Herman:** Can we get this idea in the charter, in the scope right up front.  

---
