---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-02-07
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2020-02-07
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-02-07",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-02-07",
            "endDate": "2020-02-07",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wendy Reid"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Luc Audrain"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ralph Swick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-02-07

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2020Feb/0016.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/02/07-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Tzviya Siegman, Wendy Reid, Luc Audrain, Ivan Herman, George Kerscher, Bill Kasdorf, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Jeff Jaffe, Ralph Swick, Avneesh Singh, Garth Conboy

**Regrets:** Dave Cramer

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Bill Kasdorf

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. survey
{: #section1}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Any further edits?  

**George Kerscher:** LIA does certification widely used in Italy. Good to have it in the survey.  
… also, there are partners in other countries with Benetech's GCA. Can we find out more about other certification services?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Avneesh advocated not mentioning certifiers by name.  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**George Kerscher:** That sounds right. We should be clear that it's third-party certification.  

> *Luc Audrain:* just look

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Has everybody answered the survey, or just looked at it?  

> *Avneesh Singh:* just looked at it

**George Kerscher:** I haven't gone through the whole survey.  

**Wendy Reid:** I've given Dave a lot of feedback and am pretty happy about where it is right now.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We should communicate this with Dave and then we should all actually take the survey to test it out  

> *Luc Audrain:* I’ll answer it

**Tzviya Siegman:** Not sure we need to check results but I'd be happy to test it.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I haven't actually seen any results so I think maybe nobody has actually tried to use it yet.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Dave wanted us to hold off until it's finalized  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We also need to make sure we can go back to it, maybe has to be in the same browser we started with.  

**Avneesh Singh:** Do we want a test run or an actual response? I would want to test its accessibility but might not answer all the questions.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** That would be really helpful.  

**George Kerscher:** When are we sending it out?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** today if people test today or wait until Monday morning.  

> *Luc Audrain:* Monday better

**Avneesh Singh:** today is bad--late for the rest of the world. Monday is better.  
… I will need time to do the dummy test. Will report before Monday.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** okay, we'll test today, report by the weekend, send it out Sunday night (Monday in some regions).  

**Ralph Swick:** The renewal anniversary for the BG is April 1. That means all participating members that aren't full W3C members have to be invoiced on March 1.  
… We have a list of who that means. We'd like the co-chairs to send personal emails to the the contacts for those organizations.  
… It would be useful to mention the survey at the same time.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Makes sense. We should also acknowledge whether or not the particular org has responded; if they have, thank them and say we hope they'll stay engaged.  

**Ralph Swick:** Thanks. We'll move on this.  
… You can indicate to me who you might want to contact.  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GlozqT4whYJ7M9xLtjRIoVbTG4uKlHpuZZ-vo5QnY_4/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GlozqT4whYJ7M9xLtjRIoVbTG4uKlHpuZZ-vo5QnY_4/edit?usp=sharing)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Also review the introductory comments going out with the survey, feel free to suggest edits.  
… We really need emails of the people who should actually receive the survey in a given org.  

**Ralph Swick:** We can get you a W3C email alias to use.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I see some minor editorial issues in the letter. How should I communicate them?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let us know or just do edits.  
… We're asking folks to share widely. How do we track whom we send this to? I've started keeping a list.  
… Should we coordinate this or not worry that somebody gets this from multiple people?  

**George Kerscher:** Since we're all on many of the same lists, we can see when they go out. For example, many of us are on Read 2.0, an obvious list to send it to.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Agree with George, but we don't need to be too concerned about people getting it twice. A reminder is good.  

**George Kerscher:** We should be sure to make it clear that it's from Publishing@W3C.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** If you're sharing it, we're all sharing it with the same introduction. I.e. don't freelance!  

**Luc Audrain:** Maybe not so much risk of duplication outside the US.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Okay, everybody share widely, use the standard intro, we won't worry much about duplications.  
… We'll see what kind of response we get by next week.  

> *Ralph Swick:* [mail alias created: member-publishing-survey@w3.org -- with a Member-visible archive. I'll subscribe Liisa and Dave]

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We may want to make some changes after a couple of weeks.  
… Daihei, what about translations?  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** my plan is to start on the translation after this meeting so once it is ready I will have a Japanese version to send along with my own note in Japanese to Japanese members.  
… I plan to do that early next week.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** What about other translations?  
… Should translations be done locally>  

**Luc Audrain:** I'm not planning to translated it.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** What about Korea and China? Both are important EPUB markets.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Many of those people are comfortable using English, unlike the Japanese  
… For Korea, China, and Taiwan, I think English will suffice. I can check.  
… I think the English version should go out first anyway.  

### 2. F2F
{: #section2}

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/12mOkAVcopnEA_-H1t_TQ0ocUKzgqeA1u-zcArPdsTss/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12mOkAVcopnEA_-H1t_TQ0ocUKzgqeA1u-zcArPdsTss/edit?usp=sharing)

**Tzviya Siegman:** Ivan expressed concerns that it was too focused on EPUB and not Publishing@W3C in general.  
… I've added a few items about aligning with the web and in the roles and responsibilities discussions.  
… In the survey section I added what things are out of scope but should still be standardized.  
… We did talk about web and EPUB and aligning the two from the very beginning.  
… Many (most?) of us are interested in how well what we do can be well integrated with the web.  

**Ivan Herman:** We also need to discuss why that initial vision didn't seem to pan out.  
… What did we do wrong? How do we move ahead?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Maybe we want a broader, higher-level discussion after the pm roadmap session.  
… E.g., where are we in relation to the dream? Do that before getting into the nuts and bolts discussion.  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** We have to be clear about the business needs. Whatever it's called, we need to know the "web publishing" needs from the broader community.  
… In Japan, publishers are fine with EPUB 3 and don't want to see anything disrupt it.  
… Beyond the publishing world there are things happening that really look like web publications but our outside of "publishing."  
… This may need to be incorporated into our roadmap.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** The point of the F2F is to focus on What We Should Do rather than looking backwards at what went wrong.  
… Clearly the W3C needs to understand what went wrong. The best way to do that is to ask a small number of people who are involved to convene for discussions offline.  
… Unlikely to get that done before the F2F. But this makes me a bit uncomfortable getting into this on the F2F. [Jeff, okay?]  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** How about a discussion between the roadmap and the roles and responsibilities about what our goals are now.  
… We do need to define those high level goals before we dig into the details about what the groups are going to do.  

**Wendy Reid:** Maybe instead of talking about what went wrong, talk about the challenges, what is happening that's having a negative effect, e.g. level of participation, what happened with web publications, etc.  
… We can use those to inform our plans going forward.  

**Avneesh Singh:** First, there's a discussion in the morning that is relevant to all this. How are we to deal with that? Combine all the questions together?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Starting with scope and strategies we're talking at the 50,000 foot level. Then we dive into details in the rest of the meeting.  
… So we need to go back up a level or two before we get into concrete assignments.  

**Avneesh Singh:** Sounding like an iterative process.  
… Second, what exactly do we mean by "aligning with the web"? Publications in the browsers, or technologies aligning with the web?  
… Third, we should discuss EPUB Accessibility later in the agenda.  
… Finally, maybe we should be a bit less structured than the agenda implies. Nothing there surprises me. We need to enable other things to come up.  

**Garth Conboy:** "What does aligning with the web mean?" is a really important question. This should really be a focus of the F2F. This is not a goal unto itself, it's central to all we do.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We may want to update the agenda when we get some survey results.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zLKHs6RlXOg371ZAlxSbHirwyLlLjXhMcAOKRXRR8SU/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zLKHs6RlXOg371ZAlxSbHirwyLlLjXhMcAOKRXRR8SU/edit?usp=sharing)

**Tzviya Siegman:** Remember we have a goals and motivations document. Few people have commented on it. Please take a look and share your thoughts.  
… A short session at the beginning of the day about why we're here is a good idea.  
… Liisa and I will fine tune the agenda in response to this discussion.  

### 3. Pre-work assignments.
{: #section3}

> *Avneesh Singh:* I will be in flight to New York at time of next SC call

**Jeff Jaffe:** When we were creating the agenda, I'd made some suggestions and made clear they came from me. I wasn't proposing to lead those discussions. Maybe my name shouldn't be on the agenda for those items.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** That's not the agenda, that's just the goals document. Chairs are Avneesh, Liisa, Dave, and me.  

**Jeff Jaffe:** That's not that I'm unwilling to lead a discussion if it's appropriate.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** So, about discussions chairs are having with their groups. For the BG, I've started a discussion with my co-chairs; we're meeting on this next week.  
… Where are others on that discussion?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the WG chairs have scheduled a meeting.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** need to check with Dave and Rachel on where the CG is on that discussion.  
… Garth, maybe some discussion with the WG chairs about what aligning with the web means would be helpful.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Does anybody needs guidance on how to get to Wiley? Google Maps may not be sufficient.  

> *Avneesh Singh:* I will be using Uber

**Tzviya Siegman:** for remote users, we'll need to use Microsoft Teams.  

**Avneesh Singh:** we can use the Daisy Zoom [correct?]  

**George Kerscher:** Zoom may be best; not sure about accessibility of MS Teams; I haven't tried it.  

**Avneesh Singh:** let's go with Daisy's Zoom with Wendy's as a backup.  

**George Kerscher:** Best to use Wendy's because the EPUB in HE group has a call using the Daisy Zoom the same day.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I have a Zoom account as well that can be a backup.

### 4. The BG search for a co-chair
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Topic: The BG search for a co-chair to replace Luc, who's retiring at the end of March.  
… Cristina has stepped forward. Co-chair would really like the new co-chair to represent Europe. A few potential candidates have declined.  
… We hope by putting Cristina's name out there we haven't discouraged others from Europe to apply.  
… It's open until next Wednesday.  
… Luc is concerned that he has enough time to get the new co-chair up to speed.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Luc, this would be fun to do in retirement, don't you think? Think of all the free time you'll have!

> *Bill Kasdorf:* Actually we're lucky to have such a good candidate as Cristina, imo.

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Luc Audrain:** We should encourage the new co-chair to participate in the F2F  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Amazon is intrigued that we might publish their issues openly, and thought it might be quite helpful.  

**Wendy Reid:** This came up in the F2F we had with them at TPAC. They were wondering how we were getting such good feedback. Answer: Github.  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We've been testing every open issue we have with Amazon and are making good progress.  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://github.com/dvschultz/99problems](https://github.com/dvschultz/99problems)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Happy to share that information in the Github.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* do I need to do anything before signing off?

> *Bill Kasdorf:* okay, thanks.

---
