---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-02-24
title: Steering Committee F2F — 2020-02-24
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Steering Committee F2F — Minutes",
        "about": "Steering Committee F2F",
        "dateCreated": "2020-02-24",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Steering Committee F2F",
            "startDate": "2020-02-24",
            "endDate": "2020-02-24",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ivan Herman"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ralph Swick"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Mateus Teixeira"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rachel Comerford"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "George Kerscher"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Luc Audrain"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Cristina Mussinelli"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Garth Conboy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jun’Ichi Yoshii"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Steering Committee F2F — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-02-24

See also the [Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12mOkAVcopnEA_-H1t_TQ0ocUKzgqeA1u-zcArPdsTss/edit?usp=sharing) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/02/24-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** George Kerscher, Bill Kasdorf, Wendy Reid, Ivan Herman, Luc Audrain, Tzviya Siegman, Cristina Mussinelli, Rachel Comerford, Dave Cramer, Garth Conboy, , Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Jeff Jaffe, Avneesh Singh, Ralph Swick, Jun’Ichi Yoshii, Mateus Teixeira

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Tzviya Siegman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Jeff Jaffe, Ivan Herman, Dave Cramer, Tzviya Siegman, Ralph Swick, Mateus Teixeira, Rachel Comerford, Wendy Reid

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---



### 1. why are we here?
{: #section1}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We are the Steering Committee  
… critical juncture for work: WG, BG, CG  
… put out the survey  
… gathering information  
… our purpose today: who do we serve, what do we need, path forward  
… (1) Are we taking EPUB REC track?  
… (2) Future of Publishing WG?  
… lots of uncomfortable places  
… not solving everything  
… asking some questions  
… dialog, honest conversation  
… if we don't solve - OK  
… figure out how we move forward  

### 2. Scope and strategy
{: #section2}

**Avneesh Singh:** Scope and strategy are important because the strategic goal helps exclude what is not important  
… 4 or 5 goals arose  
… let's list them and see if we are on the same page  
… (1) Social responsibility: Accessibility and internationalization  
… important to IDPF and W3C  
… (2) IETF community  
… tools, discussions, meet all of their needs, as with IDPF  
… (3) maintain, and be responsive to membership  
… (4) How do we expand the membership  
… (5) Expand the web - what does it mean  
… these arose... we can discuss and refine  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Anyone feel this is not our goal?  

**Dave Cramer:** Scope is really important  
… we've operated with assumption that we need to recreate IDPF  
… don't know if that is true  
… also looking at IDPF with rose colored glasses  
… great conferences, active members  
… not quite what I remember  
… IDPF struggled as well  
… board decided to focus on EPUB and specs  
… rather than being the hub of the publishing community  
… doing community things is tricky given that our budget at W3C is zero  
… makes it hard to be part of an organization that provides services  


**Luc Audrain:** Remind us where we come from  
… existing community (IDPF, 2006) and existing standard (EPUB)  
… standard is in use  
… important to continue to build  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Some come from the IDPF  
… working within W3C for 5 years  
… not everyone has the IDPF history  
… make sure that all members are comfortable  
… keep talking about IDPF alienates some members  
… no rose colored glasses  
… key question: What do we want?  
… if we want great conferences - how we will do that w/o money  
… IDPF does not exist  
… name to carry with EPUB  
… IDPF cannot be what it was because it is an alienation  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Two structural problems  
… (1) IDPF represented itself as the publishing industry  
… reality was that it was book publishing; almost entirely trade publishing  
… some involvement from education section  
… W3C is entirely different group  
… big gulf there  
… (2) White paper by Ivan and Marcus  
… books and browsers  
… EPUB and Web coming together  
… we have a situation that EPUB is so well evolved for book industry  
… that's wonderful - but don't change epub  
… lots of people using epub type  

**Dave Cramer:** That don't do anything  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Yes, a lot of thinking about assistive technology without using Aria  
… I'm always optimistic  
… I hoped epubs would open on the web  

**Ivan Herman:** Pipe dream  

**Bill Kasdorf:** Our challenge now is to engage much broader constituency  
… we must lose the paradigm of IDPF+  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I hear what you are saying about IDPF  
… stronger comparison of us to IDPF than the world  
… people talk about it with nostalgia - conference they could go to  
… we've done a good job of branding this as different  
… agree with Dave - some rose colored glasses  
… just a core of people  
… not the money and power to move things forward  
… for strategy we need to support publishing community  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** struggle with membership piece  
… don't see that W3C has a good way to engage people as members  

**Wendy Reid:** I was not a member of IDPF  
… in the minority  
… don't understand the nostalgia  
… discussions of IDPF hold us back  
… in broader community we could be doing so much better  
… need to broaden our horizons  
… we are publishing - but cannot close ourselves off  
… not enough outreach with other groups  
… part is the IDPF nostalgia  
… need to open our definition of what we are  
… EPUB is amazing, but developed in a bubble  

**Garth Conboy:** I have rose colored glasses  
… conferences raised money  
… not so much for outreach  
… not relevant going forward  
… EPUB was successful  
… Bill McCoy did outreach well when focused on it  
… Markus and Ivan's future view (for W3C)  
… technically interesting - we built it but none came  
… no interest from publishers or browsers  

**Ivan Herman:** And technically more complex than expected  

**Garth Conboy:** Epub 3.2 is the thing we did which has traction  
… hence should focus on EPUB  

**Tzviya Siegman:** EPUB + Web is not on agenda  

**George Kerscher:** IDPF had stagnated  
… # companies using EPUB had stagnated  
… great that IBM adopted it  
… opportunities to reach global audience outside of publishing was where I was hopeful  
… didn't see IDPF doing that  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I hear tensions to IDPF and that we have to do the same, others want to cut the chord  
… one of the things that is hurting us is to allow this tension persists  
… we look at all services that idpf used to do and decide which we continue which we abandon  
… the debate should be behind us  
… the overemphasis on idpf is holding us back, says Tzviya, and that is interesting  
… earlier this month WaPo joined w3c, but not to work on epub  
… what do we think as a community so that we would (e.g.) talk to WP  

**Rachel Comerford:** Also coming from non-Member of IDPF perspective  
… constant reference back is alienating  
… I don't know what they were doing  
… I don't care  
… I'm moving ahead with standards that impact my work  
… Hard to convince people that the fees are worth it, given the progress  
… unless our group can figure out a path forward that has a significant impact on the industry, there is no reason to stay involved  
… beyond work on an existing standard in a community group  

**Avneesh Singh:** We are having this discussion for many years  
… EPUB 3 is successful  
… but we need to move ahead  
… for people on q - let's hear about breakthroughs  
… not repeats  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Japan was first to adopt EPUB 3  
… everyone united  
… Manga was quite a visible product  
… EPUB 3 + Manga has driven the market to expand  
… reaching to 3.5 this year  
… Manga is occupying 80% of market  
… literature and text not published on digital yet  
… Japanese print requirements complex  
… epub files are costly  
… Manga is just scanning graphic and making file  
… Manga $10; literary 10x-20x more  
… epub 3 caused expansion of business  
… happened during IDPF period  
… publishers remain in W3C publishing  
… need to improve more for further expansion  
… 60% of market from other materials  
… if converted to digital publishing could be big market  
… we can make EPUB 3 more successful here  
… in Japan there is no nostalgia for IDPF  
… but there is attachment to EPUB 3 because it works  

**Tzviya Siegman:** We all love EPUB3  
… none is talking about anything else  
… backward compatibility  
… focus on scope and strategy  
… e.g. should some group be involved in community outreach  
… should we reach out to IDPF people?  
… should we align with the web?  
… social responsibility  
… sustaining membership  
… are there additional?  
… should we drop anything?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Needs to change to "publishing" community  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to changing IDPF to Publishing

**Garth Conboy:** I'm not nostalgic for IDPF  
… we had some good technical standards  
… spectrum between nostalgia or throwing out the baby - I'm in the middle  
… what Daihei said  
… we should do the stuff we can be successful at  
… community outreach not important  
… aligned with W3C  

**Bill Kasdorf:** We should not reach out to former IDPF members  
… we should reach out to those that should adopt epub  
… WaPo, NY Times  
… I'm saying this in publisher's weekly today  
… I had a good year in 2019  
… not a single client would call themselves a publisher  
… need to reach those people  

**Avneesh Singh:** Although we were debating  
… the direction is clear  
… our concern is: what community is from the past and where we are taking it  
… we should talk about supporting the EPUB 3 community  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Tzviya Siegman:** Not just EPUB 3 community  
… things that we can do for scholarly community  
… Liisa wrote the world wide publishing community  

**Avneesh Singh:** EPUB 3 has specific community pieces such as checker  
… full publishing community might be too large  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1

**Avneesh Singh:** other goals of future of publishing industry and engaging worldwide  
… let's move ahead to the next session  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I would add - ease of reading online and ease of reading period  
… an additional social  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Usability?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Maybe, but that is broad  

> *George Kerscher:* +1 to what Liisa said.

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** improve things that people don't think about  

**Ralph Swick:** e.g. CSS  
… normal readers did not think about, but experience it  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Lots of nuanced things that are not as good as print  

**Ivan Herman:** Worried when we say in general reach out to community  
… that could be broad  
… W3C as a whole not that good  
… there are areas where W3C does not have good practice  
… did not organize conferences  
… afraid of being very general  
… we are technical  
… should not pretend to be more than that  
… usability on border line  

> *George Kerscher:* Is training and authoring practices a part of outreach?

> *Ralph Swick:* [yes George]

**Ivan Herman:** issues related to ergonomics or psychology do not require adaptation  
… W3C cannot influence if one browser is better than another  
… difficult to find boundary  
… should not set the goals too high  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Let's park it and move on  

### 3. Community Building Strategy
{: #section3}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** who is our community? who is missing? who do we want to bring in?  

> *Ralph Swick:* [I'd distinguish between things we've _chosen_ not to do (at least yet) and things we think are out of scope]

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** many not engaged  
… Overdrive, Amazon, Vital Source  

**Ivan Herman:** Should not be exclusively publishers  
… everyday person who wants something readable  
… condominium association  
… people who publish, but it is not called that way  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** In IDPF days were many active from Japan  
… in transition to W3C they could not afford to pay - so they dropped off  
… they have a voice  
… we should look into  
… outside of trade publications is children publishing and educational  
… special kind of publishing  
… they would like to talk more  
… new types of involvement  

**Dave Cramer:** what do we mean by community and participation  
… big publishers we have not heard from for 10 years  
… if you are happy with the status quo, what's the point  
… we are aiming at a small slice  
… small number of people who are deeply engaged  
… want people to contribute money, time, ideas  
… which organizations  
… EPUB3CG has no memberships at all  
… 60 people commented and contributed  
… wild range of tool builders  
… someone from LOC  
… accessibility group, big tech publishers  
… random software developers  
… just saying community does not say much  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I want to caution us to not get sucked into binary thinking  
… in or out  
… there is a broad community interested in advancing epub  
… we need to support and CG is doing that  
… in addition we need to look at other organizations for which epub is not a fit  
… that's what I'm looking at  
… Elsevier no longer calls themselves a publisher  
… they are information analytics  
… Semantic web, knowledge graphs, JSON LD  
… we have LPF and manifest  
… those two things alone could be useful  
… that could be web publishing  
… wf audiobooks  
… NY Times and 1619 project ought to be a web publication  
… should send all of the schools  
… not a website - a web publications  
… should not abandon epub  

> *Ralph Swick:* See [1619 Project](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/1619-america-slavery.html)

**Jeff Jaffe:** in terms of the community building strategy... +1 to what bill just said  
… I was struck by Daihei's remark about companies dropping off due to membership fee  
… when we moved idpf to w3c there was never the anticipation that all idpf members would become w3c member  
… we set up the models to recognize that there will be a core set of people who need to be members  
… there is a broader group involved with outreach, that is what the BG was all about  
… today's point w3c's model does not always tie membership to participations,  
… we have the IE programs, and we do all our work in the public  
… occasional comments are free to all and available  
… i like the word community, and that is much broader than membership  

**Wendy Reid:** Kinda agree with Jeff  
… community and active membership are two different matters  
… EPUB3 CG is amazing  
… breadth of participation  
… we need to increase our outreach to non-English market  
… not many members from China, Korea, Singapore, India  
… lots of work happens in India  
… South America, Brazil  
… amazing things happening there  
… good participation from obvious geos; need to look at other places  
… we need to recognize what membership means  
… we are putting a lot of time in  
… W3C can be intimidating  
… need to put time into giving people clear expectations  
… get the right participation  
… agree that not all publishing will happen in epub  
… let's look at publishing manifest  
… 1619 a valid use case, but they are not in our community  
… maybe they don't want JSON - but we cannot assume  
… primarily trade with some scholarly cannot decide for everyone else  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** time check  
… so we are missing a lot of people  
… handful are involved  
… outreach issues and roles that need to be clarified  
… we will not solve them today  
… but we are talking about something much broader  
… Agreed?  

### 4. survey
{: #section4}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we put together a survey and put it out  
… and it's spread around the world  
… it does feel EPUB-centric, which was deliberate  
… survey results so far  
… 207 responses as of Friday afternoon  
… there were lots of write-in questions  
… and we have been very pleased by how much effort people put into answering  
… we didn't ask about EPUB 3.2  
… Russia, Spain, Brazil having trouble getting to EPUB 3  
… there's a pain point for backlist, the need to retool, the return on investment is not clear  
… lots of people are making PDFs  
… related to desire for matching print, and ease of creation  
… lots of comments about people making things specifically for kindle  
… which they probably don't need to do  
… we didn't see surprises around genre  
… the biggest surprise for me was dual-language support  
… and lots of people wanted notification for update  
… lots of other features we knew were missing  
… the stack-rank stuff is not changing as we get more results  
… yes/no questions are balancing out  
… there's a lot of commentary about ebook production being difficult and expensive  
… George, your announcement about Word this week will help (Word2EPUB)  

**Ralph Swick:** I'm surprised by people thinking PDF was more accessible  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I work with DSOs. Students ask for PDF.  

**Dave Cramer:** I was amazed at the volume of response and the thought that went into the responses

**Bill Kasdorf:** people wrote us essays  
… one use of this will be for education.  
… People are making separate files for Kindle when they don't need to. We need to figure out how to spread the word about how to use this.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** a lot of the feedback is not so much about epub but with CSS/html like multilingual stuff  
… and then there's a lot of stuff for reading systems to do  
… as usual we balance spec and implementation  

**Wendy Reid:** echoing what tzviya said  
… if we go to rec track with epub we need to flesh out the user agent side of things  
… there's a disconnect between what content creators expect and what reading systems do  
… the huge takeaway... we've done so much work on a11y, but content creator have no way of testing if what they do actually works  
… they put out what they think is accessible content, but they can't test the experience  
… that's on the reading system  

**Ivan Herman:** several things caught my attention  
… the creation of EPUB seems to be an immense problem  
… someone said they use vi to create epub  
… there were a decent number of answers who want to use JS  
… which EPUB tries to keep away, but in the long term we must deal with this  
… JS is something people want to use  
… and two tech things  
… one is linking into the text  
… someone referred to PDF because they have page number  
… that's a major tech issue to solve  
… the other thing is the large number of people who use `epub:type`  
… whether they use it right or not  
… we wanted to push it away  
… one more thing  
… where and how you put metadata  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to the utility of `epub:type`

**Ivan Herman:** I remember the discussion about pub manifest  
… claiming that everything is in ONIX, no reason to define any metadata  
… but if I looked at the responses, lots of people put metadata in document itself  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there are several different buckets  
… stuff for education/best practices  
… stuff for EPUB and how we improve tech and implementations  
… there's interop problems  
… and there's more we can do with people who have opted in for outreach... we have 60+ names  
… that gave email addresses  
… and 30 people opted for a conversation  
… and address those people directly  

**Avneesh Singh:** my question comes from today's meeting  
… when you see all these results, do you see a need for a revision of EPUB 3, or something beyond EPUB 3?  

**Dave Cramer:** short answer: I haven't spent enough time studying the results  
… I think much of what people want is achievable within the broad framework  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I think some things that ivan mentioned might be hard for EPUB--linking/CFI replacement. THat requires heavy duty work.  
… especially if we want to broaden the community  
… i want to talk about next steps  
… education, specs, outreach as buckets  
… in the CG we started to work on best practices for MDN. The ball was dropped.  
… but we could pick that up again. The board would be ok with us working again on this.  
… getting this on MDN would be great for education/outreach  

**Cristina Mussinelli:** is there any link between type of organization and the responses?  
… can this be checked?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** that's a good point, I have not tried to interpret the results that way  
… we were fairly anonymous, so we don't know what sorts of organizations  
… and we have some anonymous responses  

**Ivan Herman:** I come back to Avneesh's question  
… there are two different things  
… there is epub3 itself... the JS issue, that might open up a lot of issues  
… but if we go towards a world where the various JS libraries should be used, then sticking to XHTML becomes a big question  
… some script doesn't work with XHTML  
… with `epub:type` and linking  
… those are interesting in the sense that it could be done as epub 3.4/5/6  
… but these are features that this community may need but that the larger html community would love to have as well  
… so it should be tech work pushed by pub community, but put into a general framework for w3c, and not labeled as publishing-related  
… two lines here, which might come as a goal  

**Jeff Jaffe:** when I was reading my 14-page super-condensed summary that Liisa prepared...  
… I had the same "wow" experience  
… I thought that this was going to meeting, there's all this pent-up need for work to be done, here's our actions  
… but with a group this large it takes time  
… it sounds like a couple of people should develop a set of recommendations based on the survey  
… here's the 30 things to do, here's the people who should do it, in or out of W3C  
… BISG, EDRLab, etc.  
… and then we can reconvene and sort through the recommendations  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** where we have to go next today is talk about EPUB and REC track  
… that's been an outstanding issue for a long time, and it affects our organization  
… but before the end of the day forming a task force to interpret the survey results and turn them into actions  
… anything else about the survey?  

### 5. P@w3c involvement with other working groups
{: #section5}

**Tzviya Siegman:** we so often talk about where things should be happening  
… and we're not aware of all the work done in other groups  
… there's an annotation spec  
… in the past several months ARIA has been working on making annotations accessible  
… so I was brought in because of DPUB-ARIA  
… Google is trying to make GDocs accessible  
… we talk about things like footnotes and how to make them pop up  
… so there's core ARIA, DPUB-ARIA, and ARIA annotations  
… this is primarily for a11y, but this will exist in ARIA 1.2  
… and we might pull some dpub roles into regular ARIA  
… which will help wiht browser support  
… we talk all the time about popups; this could be a solution  

**Dave Cramer:** state of css for print... is a subject near and dear to my heart... turns out there's a lot of people interested in this  
… rachel andrew chaired a workshop at a conference in Prague... we had an engaged and energized group... so we decided to form a community group... as a preprocessor for the css working group, where we can triage issues and organize people to do the necessary work to move the specs forward  
… we are short of tests, have interop problems... but we have close to 40 people who have joined the cg... i'm hopeful for css right now... was in a call about this subject re chrome's internal layout engine, which will make css regions possible, and gives us reason for some hope that some of what we want to do will be possible  
… there's energy in the room to move some of the print css specs to rec... there's also a little hope that browsers will be doing a little bit on these things as well  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* See [Summary of Meeting in Prague](https://www.pagedjs.org/posts/2020-02-18-return-from-prague-the-future-of-web-to-print/)

**Ivan Herman:** just for my understanding... there were several documents and epic discussions at the css wg... are we talking about the same things revived, or something different?  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* See Print CSS CG -> [https://www.w3.org/community/cssprint/](https://www.w3.org/community/cssprint/)

**Dave Cramer:** it's the same things, paged media, css print, etc... i took over paged media, but need help writing the footnotes section... one outcome of the prague meeting is that i might have someone to help  

**Ivan Herman:** when this issue came up in the wg with css, we said the whole issue of pagination would be done by houdini, and we wouldn't have to worry about it... but do we now start again?  

**Dave Cramer:** i was told one of the blockers was ultimately trying to push a css spec to rec with implementations from non-browsers, but that was blocked  

**Tzviya Siegman:** judy brewer oversees WAI... we have the epub a11y spec, we will discuss epub going to rec track later on... but right now the epub a11y document is a "note".... the question is, how do we integrate this into WAI? it's separate from WCAG for a number of reasons...  
… we'll talk about it during the rec track discussion  

**Jeff Jaffe:** i want to point out, as we talk about WAI, that we were talking about how poorly w3c does in outreach and communications, but an exception is WAI... interesting to study what they've done  
… it's an issue of social responsibility, so they have been successful in making that case to governments, some money dedicated specifically to dedication and outreach comes from governments  
… given that there's a tie in epub a11y, we may want to figure out how to get funding organizations helping out with ed and outreach with that piece  

**Tzviya Siegman:** another thing WAI does very well... they have a group similar to this one... judy coordinates biweekly... and they don't try to coordinate the work, but everyone talks about the work they're doing, and it helps judy keep tabs on all ongoing work... so they make sure there's alignment, e.g., if there are meetings and conferences  

**George Kerscher:** wanted to bring up that in the rec track for WCAG 3 / silver, the conformance issue seems to be a really big discussion taking place... that's going to impact some things in the publishing a11y domain... heard in our call last week about the EU directive  
… i also wonder if it's really hard to speak authoritatively except through specs, and i see a lot of misunderstandings about a11y and techniques, and i wonder if it stems from now being able to come out and say "this is true" -- "this is the right way to do it", "this is inaccurate information", etc., and i see misunderstandings in a lot of places  

**Ivan Herman:** an example came to me... for things that happen at w3c... in the survey i was a little surprised to see that quite a number of people were talking about using maps in the books... it was one of the missing technical items... well, there is a workshop coming up at w3c which is exactly on turning maps as first-class entities in html...  
… this is probably of interest by itself, but it's important that we have a better channel on what happens in other groups that might be relevant in the publishing world too  
… maybe DID, too  
… we should have a slightly better way of conveying this information  

**Tzviya Siegman:** i think we all agree that we need a better way to convey info to membership... and we don't need to solve all the problems on our own  

### 6. testing
{: #section6}

> *Dave Cramer:* see [Presentation slides](https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/qNpVCKC0/Cramer-PBGSCF2F-A.pdf) (but only the first half is for this session)

**Dave Cramer:** [presents slides]  

**Jeff Jaffe:** are you saying that epub testing is not automatable, or we'd need a new framework?  

**Dave Cramer:** not automatable  

**Wendy Reid:** it's not automatable from outside... you'd need every reading system creator to implement it on their platforms and provide results  

**Jeff Jaffe:** there's a question of what you're trying to achieve... we don't think that web platform testing is a conformance test at all, just a way to assess whether implementations are indeed implementing the spec  

**Ralph Swick:** that's becoming less true  

**Jeff Jaffe:** but it's absolutely true for HTML... if we're talking about having an automation system that is available for anyone to automate their tests, assuming every RS does a little bit of work, then i'd consider that automation  
… if we're talking about conformance, that's a different story  

**Dave Cramer:** another issue is that EPUB is a secondary technology rather than primary... it uses HTML, CSS, SVG, etc., as most of its content... the things listed here are things that EPUB does, but it's also required to implement HTML, CSS, etc.  
… one of the problems with our industry is that those primary technologies don't work as expected in RSs either  
… i could make you 30000 EPUBs that each have a CSS test, but that's not feasible  
… jeff is getting to the purpose of the tests... one purpose is to satisfy CR exit criteria, but there are other purposes... as a community, interop is a huge problem for us... tests as a tool to document interop problems and give us a way of finding out at a granular level where our interop problems are...  

**Ivan Herman:** a "can i use" for EPUB?  

**Dave Cramer:** more than that... thinking of what happens in CSS, where there's a lot of interop problems in tables... it was a very old spec... and tests have been used to reach a common understanding of what should happen  

**Jeff Jaffe:** i agree that there are different purposes and they're both valid, but i think it's useful to keep our tests separate... there's the CR exit criteria and full conformance testing... the latter is much harder, but we shouldn't overstate the challenge of the first because the second one is nearly impossible  

**Dave Cramer:** one narrow question is... i think of this as input for the rec track decision... if we do rec track, we need to meet CR exit criteria, etc.  
… on purely process grounds, we need testing, aside from needing to make our ecosystem better  

**Ralph Swick:** there's a third category, which in a wg discussion the implementers that are part of the wg discover that they implemented the same words in different ways... so the spec gets disambiguated... the test tests that the implementers understood the spec... they test the spec  

**Dave Cramer:** yes, agreed  

**Ivan Herman:** different question... would the community of EPUB RS implementers be interested in some sort of accepted interface where these tests could be automated?  
… if there was an established common behavior for testing among implementers, would that be useful for the spec work?  

**Dave Cramer:** one thing that happens in css is the browser vendors have extensive testing programs, and a lot of the web plat tests were donated by browser vendors...  
… so we could ask the EPUB RS developers if they could contribute their tests... that would be a positive step  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** in survey, from 19 individuals who identified they work for RSs, only 9 answered they could work on testing... but of those 9, we have only 4 contacts, and one is Avneesh... it's a very limited group  

**Dave Cramer:** we have a ton of implementations out there, thankfully, so it's another kind of problem  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we can test after the fact by looking at what's out there  

**George Kerscher:** this is a kind of testing that i'm wondering if there's a way to capitalize on... i spent some time testing four titles that were submitted to me for the publisher face-off, and it was fascinating to see the difference between the titles...  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** because they were coded or behaved differently?  

**George Kerscher:** just the way they approached the same things... some of them totally failed...  
… we use the epub test suite to evaluate for accessibility, and if we pull it into a reading system and it behaves improperly, then it should be documented  

**Wendy Reid:** the epub tests could be used in this way, but one thing i see is that, like George mentioned, there are many ways to implement things... i've seen it when we receive EPUBs every day... down to creating a chapter  
… that's the hardest part about testing epub, i think... yes, we can create our idea of what perfect epub looks like, but implementers and content creators are going to do whatever they want to do  

**Ralph Swick:** what proportion of the reading systems would we like to test, which ones run on multiple platforms?  

**Dave Cramer:** basically every one  

**Ralph Swick:** in your experience, we need to test them on all platforms because they behave differently?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** yes, and we create tiers of platforms that we test for, then sometimes put books in the market to evaluate  

**Rachel Comerford:** we have to do the same thing  

**George Kerscher:** what about a test suite that is from the real world? now i've got about 15 epubs from the real world that are unprotected that are gorgeous and do things in many different ways, but i'm not sure if the RS developers have a test suite they can actually use... some RSs fail when loading big books...  
… what else can we provide to them for testing?  

**Wendy Reid:** i don't think this is possible for every platform, but it's been enlightening to pick, say, top 100 or 10% (mix of formats), run through all of them, and see the results for the cross-section... but these are platform-specific (kobo)  

**George Kerscher:** but if you could get a publisher to submit a title for testing that is representative of their content, that would be very helpful... so instead of you picking them, publishers would submit content from different workflows, authoring tools, etc... and you could flag issues in these tools  

**Dave Cramer:** yes, these are integration tests that we've been talking about, testing single features in isolation for example... for CR exit, we need two independent implementations, it doesn't matter where  


### 7. short announcement
{: #section7}

**Luc Audrain:** Cristina is the new PBG co-chair  
… Dave is the new Hachette AC  

### 8. EPUB rec or not rec
{: #section8}

**Dave Cramer:** dauwhe-irc-cloud: we have a document collecting pros and cons

**Luc Audrain:** pros include public perception, the benefits of testing and horizontal review  
… better patent protection etc  
… the con side includes risking features without multiple implementation, the sheer quality of work, the lack of maturity of some normative references, the need for a working group (and thus the restriction to active members)  
… would there be opposition to a working group by the TAG? the AC?  
… how much needs to change?  
… do we have enough active members to support?  
… do we need to do more recruiting and can we?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** the perception that the rec track has weight is true, it is also true that a CG note has less weight even than an IDPF standard  
… there is nothing stopping another group from forming and creating another version of the note  
… to clarify 2 implementations are necessary (no more)  
… it is possible there will be opposition from the TAG, etc but that would go to the director who I would anticipate would be sympathetic to the publishing community  

**Ivan Herman:** You concentrate on testing and conformance which is clearly the most important piece of going to rec  
… if we do technical work in this working group it may have more impact on other WGs in the W3C (whereas it would be easier for them to ignore a CG)  

**George Kerscher:** I know there is a review by the accessible architecture group - how would that work for fixed layout where there has yet to be an accessible implementation?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** that's definitely something we'll need to tackle in the conversation but it shouldn't prevent us from moving forward  
… this is an excellent list of questions to consider. We need to make a decision on this.  
… with the info we have, after we go through the queue can we take a vote and see where we stand  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think the message around this is important - backwards compatible, etc- we need to control peoples nerves and make sure these becomes problems to solve and not pros or cons to going rec track  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to controlling comms and nerves

**Jeff Jaffe:** The survey results told me that there is still work to be done on epub  
… there may be some methods for dealing with the complexity - such as deeming the previously established features being accepted and then rigorously testing anything new  

**Ralph Swick:** there may is precedent for grandfathering in the established features  

**Tzviya Siegman:** why are we doing all of this as notes, we joined this to work on standards. We incubated this in a CG, now it's time for rec track  

> *Rachel Comerford:* dauwhe-irc-cloud: in terms of grandfathering tests, I am wary of that approach

**Tzviya Siegman:** I would want to test what we already have on some level  

> *Wendy Reid:* +10000 dauwhe

**Jeff Jaffe:** html5 was a huge advance on html4 and very much used in the marketplace before it got to standardization  
… it was a wg decision what they felt needed to be tested  
… they set up a meeting with tim, went through it in detail  
… the group did the judgement of what shortcuts to allow and for what reason  

> *Avneesh Singh:* +1 luc

**Luc Audrain:** I'm not convinced that we should go to rec track. The whole industry is using epub. If we grandfather epub3, we could go to rec track with epub4.  

**Garth Conboy:** the CG has shown that it works well and moves reasonably quickly  
… w3c recommendations do have weight  
… I'm not sure anyone in this industry actually knows the difference  

**q:** Should EPUB go to REC track?  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

> *Dave Cramer:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1ish

> *George Kerscher:* +1

> *Cristina Mussinelli:* +1

> *Garth Conboy:* +0.1

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** there was some talk with japanese publishers that this will not impact their use at all  

> *Luc Audrain:* -1 if we don’t say it is another EPUB

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1

> *Jeff Jaffe:* +1

**Bill Kasdorf:** does the existing working group have epub4 in the charter?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** the charter expires quite soon  

**Bill Kasdorf:** so it won't prevent a new WG from being created?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** No  

**Luc Audrain:** I can't be sure that a rec track version will be backwards compatible  

> *Dave Cramer:* Quoting from the draft charter: "EPUB 3 is a direct descendent of the original OEB 1.0 from 1999, using an XML package file for structural and bibliographic metadata, packaged using OCF. EPUB 3 specifications will use version=”3.0” for the package file, and will endeavour to remain compatible with existing content. "

> *Ralph Swick:* [the charter can say that backwards compatibility is a requirement]

> *Dave Cramer:* See [Draft Charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CTwQIhmsyXh0tpS6RLmLLeGDkO5JKHV1FdaXoh3CdXI/edit#)

**Wendy Reid:** this is a requirement - it must be backwards compatible  

**Garth Conboy:** agreed  

**Tzviya Siegman:** yes  

**Garth Conboy:** in the current charter we had an idea that epub4 might be something different but we have since discussed that epub4 will definitely be backwards compatible  

**Ivan Herman:** calling it epub4 would be a mistake because it conveys the idea that it is something different  
… any 3.2 should be a valid 3.3 (if that is the numbering we use) except the underlying document has gone through rigorous testing  
… backwards compatibility should be in the charter  

> *Rachel Comerford:* dauwhe-irc-cloud: there may be a little wiggle room for non-interop features

> *George Kerscher:* Would EPUB 3.3 allow both XHTML and HTML?

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I support this. I think laurent made a good point that there is support for this and momentum to move forward. But I think we still need to find a better way to find a way for people to participate in the WG process  

**Ralph Swick:** the membership would not accept a charter that says "thou shalt not change the technical content"  

> *Luc Audrain:* +0 as it will be backward accessibility

**Luc Audrain:** I hear wendyreid and the others in this meeting confirming backwards compatibility  

**Wendy Reid:** on the topic of the community - because the CG is so active we should poll those members to see who can and wants to participate  

> *Dave Cramer:* Draft Charter: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CTwQIhmsyXh0tpS6RLmLLeGDkO5JKHV1FdaXoh3CdXI/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CTwQIhmsyXh0tpS6RLmLLeGDkO5JKHV1FdaXoh3CdXI/edit#)

**Jeff Jaffe:** to move forward, we don't need anyone else's approval to start a draft charter  
… it may be wise to discuss how we can build engagement etc, but we should do this in parallel  
… it would be wise to assign someone the action of creating a charter  

**Avneesh Singh:** I am worried that jumping to rec track would take epub away from the community  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to Avneesh

**Ivan Herman:** If we begin to work on the charter, we have to announce it to the AC as a WIP  
… in this case it is important  
… the question that Dave raises, if the AC would reject, we need to have that conversation as soon as possible as well  
… it is not required to have a charter ready, just our intention  
… this communication to the AC should be done ASAP  
… to get the possible objecters on record as soon as possible  
… if the statement makes it clear that part of the evolution of 3.2 is to harmonize the technical specifications  
… the current disconnet between 3.2 and the content of the web is something we want to diminish  

**Dave Cramer:** A couple things, as people has mentioned, the CG has done extensive work on the charter

**Ivan Herman:** it was written as "schrodingers charter"  
… it could be for the cg or the wg  
… nothing from the survey yet and that could be a big change  
… I am cognizent of Avneesh's concerns about the community  
… I think we need to be proactive about communicating where the boundaries are  
… the participation can be varied, there's observers, there's github  
… it can be open  
… I definitely see that as a major concern  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think we have to find good rules and divisions of the roles and responsibilities of the community group  
… we have to figure out how to help people stay involved  
… keep the connection to the wg  

**George Kerscher:** I agree with Avneesh, we need to keep the community together  
… I asked if XHTML and HTML would both be part of 3.3?  
… would that give us a path for innovation  

**Dave Cramer:** Something like that doesn't invalidate any EPUB

**George Kerscher:** it would be more tests, more of the web  

**Ivan Herman:** For the CG vs WG, I just happen to be in a WG that has a similar grounding  
… a very active CG that did much of the work before the WG  
… many of the same concerns  
… in the CG, there are certain activities that happen there  
… some things happen in the WG  
… some of the more "future looking" documents happen in the CG  
… until they get the maturity for a WG  
… what kind of division of work is possible between the CG and WG I do not know, but the IDPF had a series of additional documents they worked on  
… maybe some of them could be taken up, I see that the CG could look at other documents not mature enough for WG  
… there may be things like that that the CG can do  
… a division of work and coordination between the groups is possible  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I happen to be involved in the CCG and the task forces  
… Web Payments, WebXR, Automotive, all have this similar split  
… ideas start in the CG and bubble up to the WG  
… we are all in agreement that this needs to happen  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

  **Dave Cramer:** A caution that there is significant overlap between the participants in the CG, BG, WG, and would play roles in the rec track

**Tzviya Siegman:** I don't think we need to split participants, but having a good group of chairs to manage it all would help  

**Jeff Jaffe:** If we have 250 people in the CG, maybe there's people willing to step up  
… there's opportunity for new blood  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Action items  
… we have to look at the proposed charter  
… we have to finish assessing the survey for items to take out of it  
… once we hammer out the WG charter, set up the WIP Ivan mentioned  

**Ivan Herman:** Once the draft is there  
… it has to be put into the more formal process  
… the charter needs to be reviewed by i18n and the other horizontal activities  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I mean earlier than that, person x is going to put a charter on github  

**Tzviya Siegman:** We already have a charter  
… but we should break down the responsibilities  
… we made some decisions!  
… next session is about goals and challenges, what works and what doesn't work  
… a very polite session  
… that follows the CEPC  
… this will help us segue into building the next few years of the publishing activity  

**George Kerscher:** How do we communicate this decision  
… maybe it's an item for the next session  
… I just want to make sure we're all on the same page  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I think that does segue nicely into our next section  
… we have a goal to make EPUB rec track  
… charter a new WG  
… make sure that we are rightly coordinating between all of the groups at publishing@w3c  
… keep the current CG active and make the BG is organized  
… anyone have any ideas?  

**George Kerscher:** Prologue, the Dave soliloquy  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Let's communicate once we have more to communicate  
… we had the chairs get together to discuss what is going well/not well in their groups  

### 9. Report from the WG Chairs
{: #section9}

**Tzviya Siegman:** Ivan, Wendy, Garth, and I met to discuss what is working and what is not for us  
… what has gone well  
… and what didn't go well  
… we realized that no one was able to articulate the problems, even though we were all uncomfortable  
… we thought it would just work  
… top down and bottom up, we thought it would just work  
… getting a green light from the business group would make WP work  
… we never had a clear mission  
… perpetually in "existential crisis"  
… constant conflict, issues with security, linking, packaging  
… we weren't working closely enough with browsers to make the change  
… working with the BG has gotten better, should have been integrating with other parts of the industry  
… we are not that great at telling the technical story  
… (except DavE)  
… what worked well, when we finally realized what was wrong, we pivoted  
… we executed the pivot well  
… we've had minor issues, but the WG is working well together, no IPR issues, and Matt as an editor is lifesaving  
… Matt is the best  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** We really struggled over the last few years  
… the move to focus on US, Europe, and Asia call has helped  
… more engagement with Asian participants  
… it's not an easy change but it's been going  
… having the calls where Daihei translates help  
… it's a bit painful for scribing, but it helps to get people to talk  
… to talk more openly  
… it was good when we were helping the Japanese market over their concerns with EPUB 3.2, not comfortable with Github  
… the constant push for funding for EPUBCheck has continued to bring funding  
… the W3C can be scary for the publishing community, especially at the business level  
… things that haven't gone well, there were a lot of expectations of what the BG would deliver  
… for the WG, what does the business need  
… we have a number of people that don't talk  
… they communicate offline but may not speak online  
… there are a lot of people on the fringes that bring things up and get dismissed  
… because as the SC tends to go to a lot of meetings  
… we struggle with the fact that in trade publishing, driving technology is not necessarily our business  
… communicating how it works and why they should participate  
… our taskforces have been small and not entirely effective  
… the biggest players are not at the table  
… we agreed that the calls in 2 time zones is something to continue working on  
… language barrier  
… we think that the standing TF for outreach has been helpful  
… we keep trying to get people to communicate their business needs  
… we want to start doing getting members bring agenda items  
… bring in speakers  
… engage people outside of the day-to-day community  
… we want to stop thinking that the BG is going to stop all of the existential problems [do I have this right?]  

**Dave Cramer:** For the CG: what worked well was working on the spec itself  
… on github, on calls, a core group of very knowledgable and engaged people  
… many of whom have been involved for a very long time  
… 3.2 went really well  
… we knew what we needed to do and how to do it  

**Rachel Comerford:** What we didn't do so well was too much at once  
… 3.2, best practices, recharter  
… we did successfully recruit a lot of people to join  
… a lot of those members hang out on the edges  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Having too many people might be a weakness?  

**Rachel Comerford:** If we have a lot to do, and a lot of members not doing the work, we have a weakness  

**Dave Cramer:** It can be annoying at times when you take on your 80th-90th task and people lurking on the calls having done nothing

**Rachel Comerford:** People who are really active on calls but not following up with tasks  
… if we're not engaging them, we might be failing ourselves by not giving them tasks  

**Dave Cramer:** There was a CG meeting, instead of volunteering, I went through and asked each person what they thought

**Rachel Comerford:** I got more responses than waiting for volunteers  
… When we started assigning people to review we had more success  

**Dave Cramer:** When we treated it as a group of people working, they worked

**Bill Kasdorf:** Some of it is really just shyness  
… I know people are there, and they're smart, but they worry they're not on the level of [Dave and Rachel]  

**George Kerscher:** I think that confidence is really important to be able to accept tasks  
… I am going to own this  
… pushing that down into a TF  
… the EPUB a11y TF under Avneesh's leadership is really effective  
… we certainly can use more people  
… if we encourage people, maybe we can do more in small groupds  

**Luc Audrain:** I know many companies in France and Europe that have people join the CG and observe  
… they're interested  
… even if they're not coming to calls  
… people are aware of the CG, even if they're not participating  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** Earlier, Ivan pointed out that W3C is a technology centric group  
… the publsihing industry are not technical, many of them are editorial with IT support  
… it can create a difficult situation for them, they don't know how to participate, they're only interested in the business  
… no understanding of the technical terminology  
… language barrier is one thing, but there's also this barrier  
… technology vs the business, it should be seen separately  
… I am not sure how to do it productively  
… the BG co-chairs have discussed this, publishing companies are moving in different directions, interested in all parts of life  
… amusement parks or such things  
… not just EPUB  
… people who are interested, we need to give them attention  
… business and technology need to go together, but we need to figure out how to bridge  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Some of this discussion is about the mish-mash of technical and business communities  
… we want that engagement  
… it's almost a different language, some are not here, etc  
… my understanding of the annual IDPF conferences, it was originally the tech people created EPUB  
… the business people didn't appreciate the important, the role of the conference was to explain the work of the tech people to business  
… it was successful at first, after a few years, the topic was getting stale  
… the same people every time  
… Liisa is telling me I'm wrong  
… if there's anything in that that is accurate  
… there may be an opportunity for this new WG to link business and tech  

**Jeff Jaffe:** bring together the technical work and survey results  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** To answer your question, I don't feel like that was what the conference was  
… it was a big chunk of our busget  
… a lot of that was separate from the standards work  
… bringing in keynote speakers, bringing in senior people to see what the junior people are doing  
… for people on the tech side, was it useful, was it not  
… for many it was the opportunity to meet people who did the same thing you do  
… we usually did half-day of serious high-level sessions, and half a day of more technical topics  
… there was always some level of something for everyone  
… we all spent so much time and energy  

**Mateus Teixeira:** Before I talk about the CG  
… I added myself to the queue to talk about the translation layer between tech and business and requirments  
… business analysis  
… it happens in software development all the time  
… can we develop spec features that are understood by all parties  
… it is not always clear what I propose will be actionable, we need a pipeline for that  
… W3C has a strategy funnel, we need to be able to replicate that in P@W3C  
… the PCG has not worked well for many reasons  
… it's unclear what incubation means  
… the business and tech sides won't participate if its not clear  
… we just aren't able to get interest  
… people have ideas but they're experimental things they may try on their own  
… bringing to the community is a hurdle  
… it's equivalent to OSS, you become the owner, even if its just an idea  
… if you don't have time or bandwidth, it can be hasard  
… when we're looking at roles and reponsibilities, how do we translate customer needs and turn them into ideas for specification  

**Bill Kasdorf:** I was just going to go back to Jeff's comments  
… through the conferences  
… it's expensive to go to conferences  
… there's a budget  
… when we originally did the IDPF conferences the big motivator was money  
… we could do webinars  
… we should be doing that kind of outreach  
… BISG etc are looking for content all the time  
… there's a beneficial PR effect  
… we're doing stuff, there's an impression that there's an active organization accomplishing things  
… particularly if you piggyback onto existing organizations in the space  

**Wendy Reid:** I dont think we need to hold another conference  
… there's already many of them  
… we should be giving support and help to those that already exist  
… ebookcraft has both technical and business folk  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1 to support DPub Summit in Europe

**Wendy Reid:** can we help with more content?  
… how can we help the DPub Sumit European conference  

> *Luc Audrain:* DPub Summmit in Europe is organized by EDRLab and not the Readium Foundation !

**Wendy Reid:** and these sessions are recorded for people who couldn't be there  
… . let's put our efforts into existing things  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to supporting existing conferences

**Bill Kasdorf:** some webinars are structured and leave no time for questions  
… others can leave lots of time for dialogue during Q&A  
… I learn most of what I know by having attended so many conferences  
… W3C has done webinars but usually they''re for the W3C community  
… BISG does webinars for other communities  

> *Avneesh Singh:* We are going too deep into conferences topic.

> *Wendy Reid:* +1 Avneesh

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 Avneesh

**Luc Audrain:** DPUB Summit is done by EDRLab  
… and was the IDPF European conference  
… . we are place where the communities in Europe can learn  

**George Kerscher:** it would be interesting to do an educational webinar series to bring people to a baseline understanding  
… I did an EPUB 101 focusing on accessibility  
… it was recorded so can be viewed again and again  
… if this was done by W3C they would carry a lot of weight  
… Daisy has a 500-participant Zoom license that we'd be happy to offer  

**Avneesh Singh:** we need a long-term roadmap to support the EPUB 3 infrastructure; EPUBcheck, etc.  
… . we need a sustainable model and not rely on donations  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we've repeatedly brought up that the additional fundraising for EPUBcheck is additional to W3C Membership  
… . can we identify EPUBcheck as something that is an annual membership?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** we have all sorts of models for doing things  
… there was a period of time when a bunch of Members were concerned about the pace of HTML 5 getting to Rec and they provided additional funding  
… we have a donation program for the HTML validator  
… we're open to other ways of making things happen  
… we haven't opposed making something a funded program of W3C  
… we have to be careful about what funded programs we sponsor for each of our communities  
… we're always open to discussion  

### 10. where do we go from here?
{: #section10}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what belongs in the several groups?  

**Ivan Herman:** let's not change the current Publishing WG  
… let it finish the Audiobook Recommendation and then close when its charter expires  

**Jeff Jaffe:** we need a place to maintain the Audiobook Rec  
… so if we have a new WG, we have to ask whether it should also maintain that Rec  

**Bill Kasdorf:** all the CRs from the Publishing WG  
… I'm interested in the others independent of Audiobooks so they can be used for other profiles  

**Ivan Herman:** yes  

**Tzviya Siegman:** the focus of a new WG would be EPUB but would allow for maintenance of other specs  
… call it "Publishing WG" with a subgroup maintaining Audiobooks  

> *Jeff Jaffe:* +1 to Tzviya

**Tzviya Siegman:** or we could extend the current charter just to do maintenance  

**Ivan Herman:** the current group is named "Publishing WG"  
… so I try not to mix us up with terminology  
… the charter of the current Publishing WG will expire  
… calling the new WG "EPUB WG" would be perfectly fine  

> *Garth Conboy:* +1 Ivan

**Wendy Reid:** I think we're a year out from seeing the kind of things that would need maintenance of Audiobook  
… Audiobook 1.1 or Audiobook 2.0  
… we're still far out on that  
… we might only need a task force to keep an eye out for issues and address as needed  
… only implementation support if that  
… I like Mateus' idea of a pipeline  
… Publishing@W3C as an ecosystem where ideas can be shared  
… a funnel where people bring ideas, we discuss, we form task forces to write documents  
… I'd love to see us create a solid framework where ideas come in multiple ways and we have specific roles for people to facilitate the passage from an idea to a note to a spec  

**George Kerscher:** on the Audiobook Rec; what's the relationship with Media Overlays?  
… are they complementary?  

**Wendy Reid:** there is no relationship  
… Audiobooks uses Marisa's synchronization note  
… SMIL is not used  

> *Wendy Reid:* [https://w3c.github.io/sync-media-pub/synchronized-narration.html](https://w3c.github.io/sync-media-pub/synchronized-narration.html)

**George Kerscher:** would I produce a product as Media Overlays or both?  
… if I'm making an Audiobook  

**Wendy Reid:** Media Overlay is not used in Audiobook  

**Dave Cramer:** I'm opposed to EPUB happening in a "Publishing WG"  
… . that creates confusion  

> *Garth Conboy:* +1

**Dave Cramer:** "EPUB WG" creates a break with the current WG  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to dauwhe

**Mateus Teixeira:** we have to start the conversation based on the roles and responsibilities and see what we want to accomplish  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Mateus Teixeira:** if we assume the current structure we get into a circular conversation  
… as to "EPUB" vs "Publishing", I think there's a nice simplicity to have a "Publishing WG" that maintains Audiobooks and is also working on new specs  
… and a CG that works on new ideas  
… with a BG that tempers the new ideas and gets them into correspondence with business cases in the real world  
… . we should talk about roles and responsibilities first  

**Ralph Swick:** cataloging of issues is cleaner if assigned to a WG but it doesn't have to necessarily result in a 1.1 spec  

**Avneesh Singh:** do we have the resources to do what we need to achieve?  
… we have a lot of input from the survey  
… not everything is ready to go to Rec Track  
… we can revise the draft charter based on the survey results  
… and reduce the number of groups  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** we have to make a clear division between incubation work and what is done on the Rec Track  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** I can well imagine that looking at the technical items in the draft charter, some need incubation work and are not ready for Rec Track  
… we've learned that a WG might not be the best place to work on loosely-defined technical requirements  
… so "linking" I would characterize as incubation  
… the Publishing CG, the EPUB CG, and the Synchronized Media CG could be combined into one and bring technical issues to maturity then we put into a WG either by rechartering or a new WG  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** the three CGs are a bit of overkill  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we need three types of groups. thinking about a CG being the place where technical work is done, where does someone bring an idea that they don't have a technical proposal to do?  

**Mateus Teixeira:** to the CG  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** the way this has happened over the years, we've not built specs until we've had a problem that has gotten out of control  
… I don't think will significantly change  
… there will be small tweaks but not necessarily big changes that people propose to the public until they're half-baked in three places  

**Mateus Teixeira:** that's why I think the current CG fragmentation is harmful  
… bringing all the conversations under one umbrella gives a single entry point  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 mateus

**Mateus Teixeira:** I agree there will always be independent implementions of unique and unicorn features  
… if we can bring those ideas out for others to implement, of course we will  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 mateus

**Mateus Teixeira:** we need a community to get around these ideas to keep them alive  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1 mateus

**Mateus Teixeira:** I think a single group that is less fragmented and less siloed across technical and business interests will help us  
… . we'll find people to build bridges where the current fragmentation makes it difficult  

**Jeff Jaffe:** might we find consensus on a name other than "EPUB WG" or "Publishing WG" that is both a clear break from the past and a broader space?  

**Garth Conboy:** I think there's agreement on "EPUB WG"  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** "EPUB WG" until we have something else to build  

**Jeff Jaffe:** is Audiobook maintenance in the EPUB WG  

**Ivan Herman:** my preference would be to keep a separate WG for maintenance even if it's only Wendy and Matt  

**Tzviya Siegman:** +1 to Mateus  
… in other groups, incubation happens in CGs and move on to a WG when they've solidified  
… we've talked about how sometimes people get overwhelmed by the document production technology  
… CGs have more flexibility; they can work in Google Docs, assuming accessibilty  
… CGs can inform us whether an idea has legs  
… supppose, for example, someone asks for an EPUB standard that supports ... uh ...  

**Jeff Jaffe:** PDF as a random example  

**Tzviya Siegman:** ok, PDF  
… successful CGs meet on a regular basis and get to know each other  
… someone shows a prototype and shows it to others  
… someone else realizes it helps them with something they'd like to do  
… or is willing to try an implementation  
… if we start to meet on a regular basis and have these conversations, more is likely to happen  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

**Tzviya Siegman:** this is a way to get better at telling each other technical stories  
… so that we can get to implementations  

**Wendy Reid:** +1 to Mateus and Tzviya  
… we also should consider that Publishing@W3C could someday have more than one active WG  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* yes!!!!

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

**Wendy Reid:** we're pretty good at filtering what are EPUB things  
… when we've incubated other things we need we don't have to have just one WG  

**Ivan Herman:** +1  

**Wendy Reid:** we don't want a WG that does *everything*  

**Dave Cramer:** we appear to be coalescing on one CG that is the point of contact with the outside world  
… where all the ideas, use cases, and experiments come in  
… numerous subdivisions working on various things  
… when something very specific, like an EPUB revision that we've decided to Rec Track, there is a WG that does its work and then closes  
… when another idea emerges from incubation we start another very focused WG  
… does that match your vision of how we conceive and execute goals, Avneesh?  

**Avneesh Singh:** the CG also communicates outward  
… the CG can be our focus  

**Dave Cramer:** do we have consensus? I am marvelling  

> *Ralph Swick:* Liisa; we have consensus on EPUB Rec Track

**Mateus Teixeira:** +1 to Dave, Wendy, and Avneesh  
… it's critical not to fragment the CG  
… the CG is the broad part of the activity; it has to have as much surface area exposed as possible so the world can participate  
… let it structure itself around ideas  
… that's incubation  
… and we focus on when an idea is mature enough for Rec Track  
… ideas coming into the CG are hot, unique, and in a lot of cases untested

**Mateus Teixeira:** we need to have business input into how those will behave in the real world  
… are there going to be systems that support the idea?  
… that tempering is another angle to help us bring things to the Rec Track  

**George Kerscher:** in the CG would we be supporting the community with training and education events?  
… where will that support for best practices, training webinars, etc. be done?  
… in a CG task force?  

**Avneesh Singh:** let's hold that question for now  

**George Kerscher:** ok. Where does the accessibility work happen?  

**Avneesh Singh:** difficult to comment now; many aspects  

**Dave Cramer:** I see that as part of EPUB  

**Avneesh Singh:** maybe it belongs to the AG WG  

**Jeff Jaffe:** George's high-level question was "is a11y on the Rec Track?"  
… we should express an opinion on that  

**Avneesh Singh:** if EPUB is Rec Track, there's no question that EPUB A11Y should also be Rec Track  

**Jeff Jaffe:** propose "EPUB A11Y should also be Rec Track"  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1

> *Ralph Swick:* Liisa, Dave, Tzviya: +1

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

> *Jeff Jaffe:* +1

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** there's a lot of misinformation identified in the survey results  
… is there a BG role for helping with the communication and messaging?  

> ***Resolution #1: EPUB Accessibility should be on the W3C Recommendations track***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

**Avneesh Singh:** re: BG things  
… the role of the BG looks quite vague  
… why can't ideas be validated in the CG?  
… what is the role of the BG?  
… is the BG for conferences? for communication?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** generally speaking, the expectation is that the CG participants are mostly technical people  
… we need the business-oriented people to meet about business priorities  
… and do outreach and communication  
… that's why we have two groups  
… on the CG and WG sides we're doing quite a lot of changes; finishing Audiobook, starting EPUB  
… at some point we should talk about personnel; who do we anticipate as chairs and editors for the various groups?  
… where will those conversations take place?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** on the role of the BG; I do think the BG picking up some of the communication would be a great role  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

**Tzviya Siegman:** especially as we look at the survey results  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1

**Tzviya Siegman:** the BG can reach more people that we've been recognizing  
… a lot of the people who worked on the MDN modules are in the BG  
… webinars  
… informing people about the details of the specs  
… I think the CG can function on its own regarding "tempering"  
… asking too much of the BG for things they're not familiar with is risky  

**Wendy Reid:** +1 to what Jeff said  
… as an editor of a spec, I wish there had been more support for getting the word out  
… if we had to advertise Publication Manifest in the same way as Audiobook it would not have happened  
… many people in the BG are more technical than they admit  
… they have connections and know how to bridge between the technical work and the outside world  

**Dave Cramer:** I support Jeff's call for thinking about personnel in a relatively open way  
… this has historically happened too often in private  
… keeping to our general principle of working in public, better to discuss openly  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what Mateus is proposing is a little different from what we had before  
… the CG saying "is there a business interest in this idea" is something I think people would really get engaged in  

**Mateus Teixeira:** not oversight but the kind of information we get from surveys  
… helping the CG prioritize what to take to Rec Track  

**Tzviya Siegman:** caution that the BG is very engaged in trade publishing  

**Bill Kasdorf:** WaPo and NYT are good examples of why I like this idea  
… the barrier to entry is much lower  
… "just get in there and do it"  
… this dynamic can happen; these aren't EPUB people  
… this could be a vehicle to get other sectors involved  
… currently we look like just trade book people  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I agree that we should reach out to edicational areas  
… WaPo, Nikkei, and others  
… we have to do outreach  
… we're not in a position to do recruiting for W3C Membership  
… outreach is extra effort to extend our reach to areas where we don't have much contact  
… I see crossover between trade and educational  
… backlist and archival still have needs in EPUB  
… but we have no educational publishers in PBG currently  
… I'd like to reach out to different arenas  
… even beyond publishing  
… Mateus' idea of incubating something might not need to be related to existing publishing areas  
… for example, gaming; publishers might be interested in providing something there  
… the PBG co-chairs are talking about this  

**George Kerscher:** I see the PBG, the Publishing CG, and the WGs, with the CG supporting both the standardization activities and the business needs in communication and education  
… the publishing folk may see a need for developing materials and should be able to tap into the CG resources to develop content  
… I see this as a very healthy ecosystem  

> *Rachel Comerford:* [My draft diagram](https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/aaWvqx6F/Blank%20Diagram%20(1).png)

**Rachel Comerford:** see ^^; this diagram is very close to what George described  

**Tzviya Siegman:** George spoke the alt text for Rachel's diagram :)  

**Rachel Comerford:** I have a CG with various subgroups that incubate ideas and generate WGs  
… with the BG validating business needs of proposed features, education, and outreach  

**Dave Cramer:** I wanted to disagree with BillK  
… I had good conversations with some folk at WaPo at the Packaging Workshop last year  
… we have to approach those folk with some humility  
… we can't say, e.g. to NYT, "You should have done the 1619 project in EPUB"  

> *Ralph Swick:* Liisa; do we want to talk about leadership in these roles?

**Jeff Jaffe:** first, who is willing to be leadership? it's a lot of work  
… being willing and having a track record is a good place to start  

> *Wendy Reid:* <3

**Ralph Swick:** First of all, thank you Dave  
… for being willing to stay engaged in EPUB  
… and Tzviya, for expressing willingness to help  
… I would like to toss out another idea  
… for Tzviya to be the coordinator of all of the groups  
… I propose we rethink a role for a group that needs to do coordination  
… I would love to work with Tzviya on higher-level coordination  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I would consider that  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** EDRlab has been performing an important role  
… in Japan, Advanced Publishing Lab has an EPUB working group  
… I would like there to be regular exchange of information so the Japanese and Asian interest in the development of EPUB is considered  

**Dave Cramer:** we'll work out ways of getting contributions from everywhere  
… it may be more through the individuals associated with these organizations  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** APL has a person who is leading the EPUB study group  
… I'd like to get a flow of communication there  

**Dave Cramer:** WG calls at times that work better for Asia would be good  

**Wendy Reid:** the WG will have to be more geographically and timezone-ly available  
… we have to do technical topics in English but we can look into translations services as they have gotten a lot better  

**Dave Cramer:** organizing GitHub issues with labels to make it easier for particiular communities to track issues that are important to that community  
… vertical/horizontal text, education/trade  
… there's a lot we haven't yet done to make it clear which issues affect which communities  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I like where we're headed with the Publishing BG  
… I'd like to continue to co-chair  
… I'd also like to know where we'll collect the known issues with reading systems  
… where in this world does that action reside?  
… we need to reach out to the reading systems and let them know we're about to make these bug reports public  

**Dave Cramer:** a bug is an interop issues which leads to tests  
… ultimately we want these tests in EPUB  
… this is a technical function  
… also is gatekeeping at the wide end of the funnel  
… so maybe a CG function  

**Ivan Herman:** from experience, we should be mindful that the CG should have at least 3 co-chairs  
… the CG will have a diverse set of topics  
… and is probably the group that will attract a lot of people from a lot of different places  
… so having someone from Asia as a CG co-chair would be excellent  
… to bring in the local issues and help incubate  
… the incubation should happen by attracting issues from Japan as well  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I'm on the same page  
… I'll have to think it through  

**Ivan Herman:** on the complexity of EPUB, I wonder if it wouldn't be better to have three co-chairs there as well  
… it was good to have three co-chairs in the current WG  
… I would expect to be the staff contact of the EPUB WG  

**Jeff Jaffe:** we'll ask the chairs who they want  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I am willing to continue to co-chair the BG  
… I'd like the BG to address things outside of the publishers as well  
… and get the Publishing Community assimilated into other things  
… for the time being I'm also willing to act as an intermediator between the Japanese publishing community and the CG  

**Wendy Reid:** we have a CG co-chair from Japan; he's been extremely busy with his day job  
… I agree that the CG needs three chairs  
… I think we need a third person who is extremely organized on agendas, etc.  

**Avneesh Singh:** I'm getting worried that we're getting ahead of ourselves in this discussion  
… some of this discussion should happen in the respective groups so they feel ownership  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1 avneesh

> *Ralph Swick:* <ralph> +1 Avneesh

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

**Avneesh Singh:** we have to be careful that we've decided broad directions; we now have to take those back to the groups  

**Mateus Teixeira:** any group that has three co-chairs should cover the three roles of technical, administrative, and business insight  

**Tzviya Siegman:** in an ideal world  

### 11. action items
{: #section11}

**Avneesh Singh:** when does the survey input get incorporated?  

**Dave Cramer:** I see two inputs: the survey and the existing draft charter, with the output being two different charters  
… the charter development process will include interpretation of the survey results  

**Ivan Herman:** there's a point when the draft text has to go through formal processes  
… I'll help with that  
… but I'm not available for a short time from two weeks from tomorrow  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** now that we know the direction we think we're headed, we should all go back and look at the survey results to identify actionable items and think about where they should land  
… we should leave here today with some messaging to the rest of our community to let them know broad strokes of the path we think we're taking  
… EPUB to Rec Track, Publishing CG, rest the BG  
… have a statement we can give to start people thinking in that direction  
… and leave here with a good sense of what we're going to do with all these results  
… how public, how will we share? will we let everyone see everything? summarize?  
… we have some valuable data and some people within and outside our community who would like to understand more  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we also need to talk about what this group will do next  
… our next SC meeting?  

**Wendy Reid:** I'll work on going through the survey data and turning it into things to inform the charter  

> *Avneesh Singh:* Just to remind, survey is still on. More data will come in.

**Wendy Reid:** I don't think publishing the raw data is a good idea  
… I can do some analysis and identify the most important issues  
… and create something that is more publicly consumable  
… I do a lot with customer feedback  

**Jeff Jaffe:** the structure we came up with today was inspired by the survey  
… but it doesn't address every part of the survey  
… it's important that a few people systematically go through the survey and identify things that we didn't talk about today  
… that systematic assessment should be done and would be nice to have done before we fully communicate back to the community  

> *Avneesh Singh:* +1 Jeff

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

**Jeff Jaffe:** say to the community "in response to what you've asked for, we've restructured in the following way ..."  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

**Dave Cramer:** it should be all of our homework to look at the survey in detail  
… this is the most external input we've ever received, at least since Publishing@W3C started  
… we should digest it before we communicate our plans from today  
… I'd like us to have a more comprehensive understanding of how we'll address all the issues  
… and have a more comprehensive plan of how we'll address these goals  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** so we're not leaving here with a big message; we all have more homework to do  
… how much time do we need?  

**Dave Cramer:** put ideas into a Google Doc so we can collaborate on them  

**Tzviya Siegman:** we need to set a date to close the survey  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** Dave and I would like to leave it open for as long as we're still getting data  

**Dave Cramer:** I think we have enough for now but don't see value in restricting the flow  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** I've heard people say they're still working on it  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I agree that looking at the survey is all of our responsibilities  
… but pressed for two people to take the lead  

**Avneesh Singh:** I'm concerned about the timeline  
… are we in a hurry or are we taking 4-5 months to study the survey?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** we are in a business that constantly changes  
… the 80/20 rule applies  
… if we're 80% sure there's not a lot of value in waiting  
… but it will continue to change  
… it will take several weeks to generate a charter  
… and if we get more input later then we'll revise our plans  

**Ivan Herman:** I wouldn't want to wait as the current situation is that the WG has slowed down while waiting for implementations  
… there's a "togetherness" that is slowing down and will be difficult to revive if we wait for a few months  
… I'd like us to be able to announce to the Membership that we are working on a charter  
… and let reactions come in  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to ivan

**Ivan Herman:** if we start [AC review of a charter] in May, then we could still have a first f2f at TPAC  

> *Liisa McCloy-Kelley:* +1

**Avneesh Singh:** the traction is already down  
… the momentum will come from the existing EPUB 3 CG  

**Wendy Reid:** I think the momentum argument still applies; we should announce that there is [new] work coming else we'll lose some Members  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* +1

**Wendy Reid:** keep the cycle that we're doing stuff  
… I'm OK with having an idea of the work we want to do for the SC meeting in two weeks  
… I think we shouldn't wait more than a month to communicate something  
… we can at least announce that we're planning to propose EPUB Rec Track  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with Wendy  

**Garth Conboy:** regarding the SC, this is a pretty effective group  
… as we've reconstituted the SC as the co-chairs of the various groups has been pretty good and makes sense  

**Ivan Herman:** the SC chairs have been the BG chairs  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we haven't formally decided SC chairs  

**Avneesh Singh:** when we have these new groups meeting, the coordination committee will shape up by itself  

> *Cristina Mussinelli:* bye

---


### 12. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): EPUB Accessibility should be on the W3C Recommendations track