---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-01-10
title: Publishing Chairs’ Telco — 2020-01-10
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-01-10",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Publishing Chairs’ Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-01-10",
            "endDate": "2020-01-10",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Liisa McCloy-Kelley"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Wendy Reid"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tzviya Siegman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Luc Audrain"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Bill Kasdorf"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ralph Swick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Avneesh Singh"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Jaffe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rachel Comerford"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# Publishing Chairs’ Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}



**Date:** 2020-01-10

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-publishing-sc/2020Jan/0013.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/01/10-pbgsc-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Wendy Reid, Dave Cramer, Tzviya Siegman, Liisa McCloy-Kelley, Luc Audrain, Bill Kasdorf, Ralph Swick, Avneesh Singh, Jeff Jaffe, Rachel Comerford

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Liisa McCloy-Kelley

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer, Wendy Reid

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** let's get started  

### 1. amazon
{: #section1}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I've been working with them on bugs  
… so have regular talks  
… so they asked about w3c  
… we want to be involved but don't have a lot of time  
… the BG might be interesting  
… with the survey  
… so they were excited about that  
… what content isn't supported etc  
… they do want to understand more about that  
… they can also lurk  
… or reach out individually  
… they don't want it to look bad if they have to pull bad for other projects  

**Tzviya Siegman:** that happens all the time, it's totally normal for involvement to ebb and flow  
… some large companies have been involved, and then not. They might come back.  
… we have the test suite for audiobooks right now. That might be interesting to them.  

> *Avneesh Singh:* I heard the same, audio team is at a distance from Kindle

**Jeff Jaffe:** as a member of w3c, amazon has the ability to show up wherever they want  
… so the Q is, can they show up unnoticed?  
… we have a status for that, observer status  
… it's most important for a WG  
… we want to make sure they aren't contributing ideas  
… if they are not members they haven't made IPR committments  
… the chairs can invite people as observers  
… they are not participants  
… having observers in a bg is less dicey because of no IPR issues  
… CGs do have the IPR issue  

**Wendy Reid:** the discussion I've had with amazon about kindle vs audible is that they are very far apart  
… should we point amazon at test suite, and mention pub manifest?  
… they were interested in feedback  
… and how other reading systems get feedback from publishers  
… is it worth mentioning epub as rec track to them? and saying that the tests are something we want to do? And getting more interop?  
… they are interested in being a bit more open than in the past  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** based on what jeff said, we should encourage to get them involved in the BG  
… we need to be mindful that only in the last few months have the kindle publishing guidelines mentioned epub  
… but they're always looking at ways to improve the reading experience  
… and is there is a problem they have that epub advancing itself can help them with?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** we should send them the survey  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** absolutely  

**Luc Audrain:** amazon is interested in a11y, they have put a11y in their new guidelines, and they want to support more of that  
… and that's one of their motivations  

**Tzviya Siegman:** many of us have relationships with amazon, with different people, which can be fragile  
… but we should give them choices of which groups and how they participate  
… we shouldn't be overly cautious. We don't need to protect them.  

> *Ralph Swick:* [there's not a formal "observer" status on an ongoing basis; chairs may invite guests to selected meetings but that's not expected to be an on-going invitation. However, Members may certainly subscribe to (or read archives of) mailing lists.]

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I know the IP issues are a concern  

**Wendy Reid:** we can invite them to both meetings in one week  
… the BG meetings show one side of the activity; they should see a WG meeting  
… or a CG meeting if they end up happening  
… let's expose them to both sides of the activity  
… the topics, goals, and people are very different  

**Luc Audrain:** the mail we have today is on public steering committee list, and many people can read these mails  

> *Ralph Swick:* [Luc is correct]

**Ivan Herman:** yes, the mailing list is public  
… if, after our meeting in February, we have any chartering work  

> *Ralph Swick:* [more specifically, the mail archive is public; one subscribes to the list by joining the group]

**Ivan Herman:** we have to be very outgoing to get them discussing goals and targets of the charter  
… they may or may not join the upcoming group  

> *Wendy Reid:* dauwhe: I wanted to mention that a core value is for us to work in public

> *Wendy Reid:* ... we don't need to protect amazon, but we need to work in public

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** moving on, I wanted to give a brief update  
… I think there's a lot of new stuff in InDesign about accessibility, and we should make that more public  

**Luc Audrain:** sorry, I didn't hear what you said clearly  
… we had contact with ??? about a11y in InDesign  
… We have talked to Andrew Kirkpatrick about a11y  
… we wrote to him about getting more news, but we haven't had anything new since october  

**Bill Kasdorf:** in terms of a11y in ID  
… are they thinking of that in EPUB or PDF?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** what leonard said was EPUB  
… it's under the hood  

**Luc Audrain:** it's in epub export  

> *Rachel Comerford:* +1 wendyreid

**Wendy Reid:** I really want to get to the F2F topic. This doesn't seem like an SC topic but a BG topic?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I want to talk about the survey  
… is it for just epub or for epub and beyond?  

**Dave Cramer:** I think the survey should just be focused on EPUB and its future  
… we should not be talking about web publications or bundles  
… we want to know where EPUB should be going  
… our audience is familiar with EPUB, its limitations  
… it would be confusing to ask questions about WP or books as first class citizens of the web  
… we should at least try to focus on EPUB  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with dave  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* +1 to Dave

**Tzviya Siegman:** but a lot of answers may inform other things that aren't epub  
… for example, being able to link from epub to epub  

**Jeff Jaffe:** I also agree that it should be about epub  
… we shouldn't ask confusing questions about books on the web  
… but we shouldn't exclude that  
… like open ended questions about the future of epub  

> *Avneesh Singh:* +1 to Jeff (we should not exclude)

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we should frame the overall survey, but make sure sure the questions aren't projecting answers  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** fundamentally i agree with dave  
… focus on epub on where it's going  
… but we should be open to all ideas from industry related people  
… in december I was in asia and japan  
… ??? educational publishing  
… trade publishing is satisfied with epub 3.2  
… they don't want to confuse the issue  
… but on the magazine side they need something outside epub  
… seeing something outside they see that responsive design should be brought into digital publishing  
… and w3c should be creating standards  
… so we should listen to what they say  
… we should hear from other parts of the publishing industry  
… there are going to be some new ideas coming into epub and beyond epub  

**Wendy Reid:** I agree with dave, we should be focused on epub  
… we can ask about the future  
… we should be sending it to more parts of the industry to understand what they're missing  
… responsive design should work in epub  
… but there are reading system bugs  
… standards-wise, it is certainly allowed  
… and we should know where reading systems are failing them  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** re: responsive design, it's not just text and reflow  
… we're talking about education, with content with graphics, text, and video  
… and then respoinsive design in epub 3 doesn't work  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** we need to come to our f2f with a lot of information already out there  
… so we can have a more decisive meeting  
… can we start framing what we need to do before the meeting, and how to accomplish it  
… should we keep going with the emails?  

**Jeff Jaffe:** +1 to tzviya for starting the conversation  
… for a successful meeting we need well-defined questions that we want to get answered in the meeting  
… they could be structure questions, business questions  
… after the meeting we should have a plan, energy, etc  
… tzviya and liisamk volunteered to chair  
… in a couple of weeks the chairs should be able to write a crisp list of what we want to get done in the next year  
… what gets chartered, what gets done, what outreach, what conferences  
… and then we can make specific committments in the meeting  

**Tzviya Siegman:** I agree with that  
… in advance we need to look what has worked well and what has not worked well in the pub activity  
… we need to look at the division of labor  
… what should be done in the BG vs WG  
… and the BG chair may be changing  
… Avneesh keeps reminding me that we're mushing together goals and structure  
… we need to figure out goals and then find a structure to achieve the goals  
… so we need to be able to say what we need  
… so we start writing a list of what I'd like to see in epub or some other standard  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** I can give us three assignments  
… 1. keep converstation going about where we are and what we need to do  
… 2. have a doc for aspirations and goals for our organizations, and where we want the community to go  
… and what the sets of chairs think is working and what isn't working for the various groups  

**Avneesh Singh:** I am comning from different angle  
… when I start on strategy, I begin with motivations  
… the survey is important, but it may not be completed yet  
… one motivation is a11y and i18n  
… and we need to support IDPF community and make sure they are happy  
… we described that IDPF provided an ecosystem with readium, epubcheck, etc.  
… how is that sustainable in w3c?  

> *Luc Audrain:* +1000 to Avneesh

**Avneesh Singh:** some people would say they contributed to epubcheck, so why should they also pay for w3c membership?  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1 avneesh

> *Tzviya Siegman:* +1 to Avneesh

**Avneesh Singh:** from the drivers we can come up with the objectives  

**Jeff Jaffe:** Avneesh said that w3c needs revenue, but I don't see that as a driver. We need to support the publishing community.  

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I think Avneesh was referring to funding for epubcheck etc.

**Wendy Reid:** I agree with Avneesh; he's been so helpful to us in creating proper strategy  
… we do need to get the survey out are dependent on us having a little back of feedback  
… but if we can get it out in the next week or two we'll have a healthy amount of feedback  
… we already know what some of the motivations and feedback we'll get  
… we know what drives us crazy  
… and we should remember that, and also learn what we don't know about  
… how do we maintain membership in our groups and give them a good experience  
… we are responsible that we are providing a service to those who join  

**Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):** in terms of business community needs, japan is first and one of largest in use of epub  
… Asia is a very large market  
… but I'm the only one on the SC  
… I will make sure that we get survey feedback, and that issues from asia are on F2F agenda  
… and combined into interest in w3c from asia  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** trying to wrap up this agenda item  
… it sounds like avneesh wants us to add motivations for the strategy  
… so I would like us to set a goal of working on the three documents, and also get a draft of the survey ready in the next two weeks  

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1 to Liisa

> *Luc Audrain:* +1

**Tzviya Siegman:** I'd like to integrate the motivations into the other docs  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** agreeed  

**Tzviya Siegman:** liisamk, I think that's our job as chairs  

### 2. F2F planning
{: #section2}

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** you had questions about the a11y presentation at lunch. Is that OK?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** is it oK with everyone?  

**everyone:** yes  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** can you propose the hours for the day  

> *Wendy Reid:* +!

**Tzviya Siegman:** I was assuming 9 to 5  

> *Wendy Reid:* +1

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* Okay

> *Bill Kasdorf:* I would have to leave early to get a flight home if I come, which I'm considering doing

**Tzviya Siegman:** we will have a remote dial-in option  

> *Luc Audrain:* Thanks for remote

**Tzviya Siegman:** there will be lunch from Wiley  
… in terms of location/logistics  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://www.w3.org/wiki/AB/2019-01-HOB](https://www.w3.org/wiki/AB/2019-01-HOB)

**Tzviya Siegman:** wiley hosted an ab meeting last year  
… that link has logistic info  
… we are close to public transport  
… I don't think anyone needs a visa, if you do contact me for a letter of invitation  
… there will be coffee, but I'm not sure about breakfast  
… liisamk, we should have a call to work out some logistics  
… any other questions about Hoboken?  

**Liisa McCloy-Kelley:** anything else to discuss?  

**Tzviya Siegman:** if you have dietary restrictions please contact me  
… I'm going to add a list of attendees  

**Ivan Herman:** where should we put our names?  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/12mOkAVcopnEA_-H1t_TQ0ocUKzgqeA1u-zcArPdsTss/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12mOkAVcopnEA_-H1t_TQ0ocUKzgqeA1u-zcArPdsTss/edit?usp=sharing)

**Tzviya Siegman:** in the draft agenda  

---
